 you you you Um Where's yours? Thank you Good morning The city is Boston zoning on and water for PIL hearing for May 10th 2022 is now in session This hearing is being conducted in accordance with the applicable provisions of the open meeting law, including the updated provisions enacted by the legislature last year. The new law allows the board to continue its practice of holding virtual hearings until July 15, 2022. This hearing of the board is being held remotely via the Zoom Webinar event platform. This hearing is also being live streamed. In order to ensure the hearing of the board is open to the public, members of the public may access this hearing through telephone and video conferencing. The information for connecting to this hearing is listed on today's hearing agenda, which is posted on the public notices page of the city's website Boston.gov. Members of the public will enter the virtual hearing as attendees, which means you will not see yourself on the screen and you will be muted throughout unless administratively unmuted when asked to comment. Board members, applicants and their attorneys or representatives will participate in the hearing as panelists and they will appear alongside the presentation materials when speaking. The panelists are strongly encouraged to keep video on while presenting to the board. As with our in-person meetings, comments and support will be followed by comments in opposition. The order of comments is as follows, elected officials, representatives of elected officials and members of the public. The chair may limit the number of people called upon to offer comment and the time for commenting as time constraints require. For that reason, the board refers to here from members of the public who are most impacted by a project. That is those individuals who live closest to the project. If you wish to give comments on an appeal, please click the raise hand button along the bottom of your screen in the Zoom Webinar platform. Click it again and your hand should go down. When the host sees your hand, you will receive a request to unmute yourself. Select yes and you should be able to talk. If you are connected to the hearing by telephone, please press star nine to raise and lower your hand. You must press star six to unmute yourself after you receive the request from the host. Press star nine to raise and lower your hand and press star six to unmute yourself if you are attending this meeting by telephone. Those called upon to comment will be asked to state their name and address first and then can provide the comment. In the interest of time and to ensure that you have enough time to do so, please raise your hand as soon as Mr. Fortune reads the address into the record. Do not raise your hand before the relevant address is called or the meeting host will not know to call a new at the appropriate time. Just a reminder, this is being conducted as a regular meeting. So when the board is taking testimony or is in discussion, please refrain from interrupting. These instructions will be repeated throughout the hearing. I will now take a roll call of board members. Miss the fortune. Good morning, Madam Chair. Good morning, Mr. Regiro. Good morning, Madam Chair. Good morning, Mr. O'alllake. You are? Mr.調. Good morning, Madam Chair. Good morning, Mr. Robinson. Good morning. Good morning, Mr. Pan wieder. Good morning, Madam Chair. Good morning, Mr. Hampton from BPD. Good morning, Madam Chair. Good morning, and is Mr. Demiko, R from B.G D. Okay. Mr. Fortune, let's get started. Thank you Madam Chair. Good morning. This is the first order of business is the approval of the hearing minutes of April 5th of 2022. We need a motion. Motion or approve. Okay. All those in favor? Aye. Aye. Any opposed? Motion hearing. Aye. Call on the first extension calling B.O.A. 9161514. Snow Street. Name an address for the record please. Mr. Fungon. My phone on. I'll come back to him. I'll come back to Mr. I'll come back to the first one. I'm going to call the next two cases calling B.O.A. 9196092537 Frankridge Street. There was a companion case B.O.A. 919610120. Name an address for the record please. Morning Madam Chair, members of the board. Attorney Matt Eckle with Ferrego and Tuscano with the business address of 11 Beacon Street. Thank you, Mr. Eckle. And regards to 2537 Frankridge Street and 120 Gov Street. This was 2537 Frankridge. The board originally granted this relief on June 14th of 2019. And it granted the first extension of relief until June 14th of 2022. However, that extension was unnecessary with calling the original grant to the relief remains valid until September 19th of 2022. I recommend that the board prefer for the record that the relief remains valid until that date. The applicant now also requests an additional extension until September 19th of 2023. I recommend that the board grant that additional extension, if it determines that it is appropriate under the circumstances, take into account this would be the only applicant's first necessary extension. Madam Chair, the same purpose is 120 Gov Street. Would you like me to read that into the record or is that fine? Other dates exactly the same? The dates are exactly the same. Okay, so we've read both into the record. May I have a motion, please? Motion to grant an extension through September 19th 2023. And that includes all applicable to all those in favor. Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Thank you. Calling the next case for extension. Calling BOA486152278. Board of Justice for Avenue. Name and address for the record, please. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. Mark LeCastla 75 Arlington Street in Boston. Thank you, Mr. LeCastla. We got to 270 Gov. Justice for Avenue. The board originally granted this relief on July 14th of 2017. The board then granted the first extension of relief until July 14th of 2020. Tolling of Prices extension with tolling the first extension remained valid until October 19th of 2021. In the intervening time, the board granted the second and third extensions that were unnecessary. However, the board's most recent extension extended the relief beyond the toll expiration date. I recommend that the board confirm for the record that this extension encompassed all applicable tolling. The applicant now requests an additional one-year extension until July 14th of 2023. I recommend that the board grant this extension if it determines its appropriate under the circumstances taken into account that it would only be the applicant's third necessary extension. May I have a motion, please? Mr. Fortune, what was that date again? Mr. Chair, that date would be an additional one-year extension until July 14th of 2023. I'll make a motion to extend until July 14th 2023 and that includes all applicable tolling and hopefully this project gets off the ground. Yes, it didn't blow past us, Mr. Locast, that this is the third one. So we expect that we will not see you in relation to this project. We're in the final stages of designer view at BPDA and I'm happy to report that the new developer is eager to get started. Excellent. May I have a second, please? Yes, I can. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Thank you so much. Madam and Vassel, does anybody from Snow Street on? 14th snow. In check, I didn't see my on earlier. And. Yeah, I'm just going to make sure that Joseph, are you here for this case? I'll see your hand is raised. Hi Joseph, are you here for this case? I think you might be all set, sorry. Madam Chairman, would you like to do? Let's go ahead and please rely on the office. We will rely on the office to get the message to the applicant. So do you already call into the racket? Yes, please. The record calling the away 916151114 snow street. The border ridden through the garden 14th snow street, the board originally granted this relief on April 12th of 2019 and granted the first extension of relief until April 12th of 2022. However, that extension was unnecessary with calling the original granted relief remains valid until July 18th of 2022. I recommend that the board confirm for the record that the relief remains valid until that date. The applicant now also requests an additional extension until April 12th of 2023. I recommend that the board grant that additional extension as it permits that it's appropriate under the circumstances, taking into account that this would only be the applicant's first necessary extension. Motion, please. I'll make a motion to extend to April 12th 2023 and that includes all applicable to all. Oh, second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Good luck. On the first case for G-Cog case B-O-A 13056791 Otis place. This is a complete interior got remodel rebuilding existing windows to restore new elevator. Violations article 32 section for this G-Coged Applicability. Name and address for the record place. Point in Kevin Goggin 400 Atlantic Avenue, business address on behalf of the applicant. Okay. Are these new units? What are they? Yes, ma'am. So this will be a to redo of a seven unit residential building that all can be combined into a primary residence with an additional garden local unit. Okay. How are the plans, Mr Robinson? Plans are good. No questions on the scope. Okay. May I hear from Mr. Seminella? Morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. Christian Seminella, Boston, Valar, trust. And we have both letters from the applicant. Thank you, ma'am. I have one motion please. Okay, we also have those letters. Thank you. We have motion. Motion to. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Thank you, ma'am. I can't remember the board. Calling the next case, calling VOA 1307773397 Commonwealth Avenue. This is a chain of art from a dormitory lodging house to six dwelling units. Violations out of 32 section 4. The G-Card applicability. Name and address for the record please. Name is James Green. I'm a train at Rubin Rezman on here on behalf of the applicant for the property. I believe also our engineer is available. Thank you. How are the plans, Mr Robinson? Plans are good. No questions from me. Are these micro units? Any chance? Do you know? Not at all, Madam Chair. These are substantial large units. This was a dormitory for young women attending colleges. This was a private dormitory operated by a Catholic order. I'm a consultant to my client doing a complete rehab of this building. Thank you. All is only compliant. Thank you. Mr. Seminelli. Mr. Boyd, Chris and Seminelli Boston Rower Trust. And we have both letters from the applicant. Madam Chair, we have those letters as well. Motion to approve. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Thank you very much. The next case, Colleague V.O.A. 131-8116-146 Commonwealth Avenue. It's an complete partial gut renovation. To a single family townhouse, conclude new mechanicals, new finishes, and change our dormitory to a single family. The violation of Article 32, Section 5. This is T-Card applicability. They may add just for the record, please. Good morning, members of the board. My name is David Lindhart with Cools Through Instores. 400 Atlantic Ave. And this product has been read into the record. Is a rehabilitation for single families. Thank you. How are the plans, Mr. Robinson? Plans are good. No questions. Mr. Seminelli. I remember Mr. Boyd, Chris, and Seminelli, Boston, Brown, and I need to have four players from the up. We have those letters as well, Madam Chair. May I have a motion, please? Motion to approve. I'll go in favor. Aye. Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Thank you. I'm going to call the 930 hearings for any deferrals or withdrawals. If you give the address first, please. This is 930 only. Furrals or withdrawals? Hello, Mr. Secretary. This is Mike Ross. The address is 535 Washington Street. Thank you, Mr. Ross. Fuller, record. Calling VLA 1173599 535-537V Washington Street. Name and address. Fuller, record, please. Hello, Mr. Secretary. Madam Chair, members of the board. This is Mike Ross, attorney at Prince Lowell, one international place. We made some late changes, minor modifications to the plans. Unfortunately, the rule is you need to get those in within two weeks of the hearing. So that the plans examiner has time to review and that your board architect has time to review, even if it's the most minor of changes, as is the case here. And because we didn't were unable to do that, we are requesting a deferral to allow the board and staff time to review said documents. May I have a motion, please? Motion to defer. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. The date, please. You'll have a date of July 12th at 1130. Okay. Thank you very much. Are there any other deferrals or withdrawals for the 930 cases? I'll call the first case, calling VOA 1-283596-101 Saratoga Street. This is to combine two lots into a newly created single lots, be 1,992 square feet, a change of arcs for a commercial space, on grade, and two units above to six residential and roof decks. Renovate the existing three-story dwelling and add an addition to the rear. All existing flows will be lowered and refrained with new days along Saratoga Street and Damien Street. The liability is at the 2017-55, this is in the East Boston iPod. Article 32, Section 4G, caught up with the ability. Article 53, Section 8, a multi-fueling dwelling use is to bid at the 53, Section 52, Roost, Section Restriction, Article 53, Section 56, Ostrich Park, within sufficient. Article 53, Section 57.3, Traffic Visibility Across the Corners. Article 53, Section 9, the Floor Day Ratio, was excessive. Article 53, Section 9, the Bill and the Times, Excessive and Stories. Article 53, Section 9, the Bill and the Times, Excessive and Feet. Article 53, Section 9, the Front Yad is in sufficient. Article 53, Section 9, the Side Yad is in sufficient. And Article 53, Section 9, the Ray Yad is in sufficient. Aiming at address for the record, please. Good morning, Madam Chair and Members of the Board. Richard Lins, 245 Summars Street, East Boston on behalf of the Titianer. Can I have the page numbers that you can probably jump right to for ease of use for the Board? If we could jump to page six, Madam Ambassador, that would be great to start off. Madam Chair, Members of the Board, this is a pre-existing non-conforming use and structure located at the lower end of the Eagle Hill section of East Boston. Our proposal would be to eliminate the ground level commercial use into added addition to the rear of the building. We program the entire building to a multi-family use. This would result in a very substantial upgrade to the entire building. We are proposing to have private roof decks for the upper level. Those would be accessed by hatch, of course, not with any proposal for a headhouse. This is located, however, in a 2,000 district. That is the zoning that's been in place since 1993. As you can see from some of the context photos, we are surrounded by numerous multi-family residential uses. This is located less than a block from the smaller commercial district located on Bennington Street. So, Mr. Lins, can you tell us first the couple of things? So the zoning district is 2F-2000. You know, talking about combining the two lots to result in 1,992 square feet. The current building, which contains the commercial use of two residential units above, is already on a non-conforming sized lot. We would be adding a rear parcel that would result in approximately just under 2,000 square feet total. We believe that the rear lot was a part of the existing lot. But let's just get an understanding. So what is the lot sized then? 1,992 square feet. Okay, so then it looks like the neighborhood context might be three families at maximum. So can you talk through the units, the size of the unit, and also talk through the roof decks? Sure. And with respect to the context, Nat and Chair, and as I showed in the street photos, diagonally and directly across the street, and all directions are multifamily structures, including large, elderly complex directly across the street, to reuse former middle school. The two buildings, both directly across the diagonally across, are six plus unit buildings as well. Respectfully, unit size. These are all being proposed as two bedroom units. The size averages around 860 square feet. There is one unit based upon the existing layout, which is just about 700 square feet. And I understand that, you know, certainly we can look at modifying the size of that unit, based upon the minimum, minimum size requirements. The actual zoning violations that would be applicable in this case, first would be the change to a further nonconforming use, because this is programmable commercial with residential, it is already non-dupermanual, proposing its substitute that with multifamily, which is more consistent with the surrounding neighborhood. In addition, we already have the existing condition of a nonconforming height, because the two-f district does permit only two and a half stories, but 35 feet. This is already a pre-existing three-story building. It will remain a three-story building, but in order to address the violations as a result of the addition that we're proposing, we do require variance for the height, because that would be a three-story addition. In addition, we would be increasing the FAR. The current FAR obviously being nonconforming above the 80% that's committed to the FAR in the East Boston District for this neighborhood. We would be increasing that up to about 2.9, which because we have almost entire lock coverage at three levels, we would be increasing the FAR significantly. But I would point out that this is a corner lock condition, very similar to what we've felt with other corner locks, where it's difficult to create sort of the setbacks that are usual mid-block on locks that are much wider for purposes of compliance and regulations, under Article 53. And the roof deck from what I can gather is accessed by hatches? That is correct. We actually proposed this originally. This was being proposed as a four-story building based on consultation with the neighbor. We've kept it a three-story in exchange for some concessions that we were proposing. Okay. Mr. Sominoid? We have both letters from the applicant. Madam Chair, we have them as well. Thank you. How are the plans, Mr. Robinson? Plans are good. I think the height is consistent. I guess I'm a little unsure why the addition, I think, could be seen as an addition to a nice historical corner building, and it sort of seems like it's going the other way. So I don't, in terms of the proposed scope, have any real questions, but I have a little bit of a question of the architecture and the approach. But generally, I think that units are fine, and the roof decks are accessed by hatch from the units below. So no other questions for me. Any other questions from the board? Yeah, I have a question for the applicant. The addition is now on looks like from Google Maps an empty lot. So it means that if this were approved the entire combined lot would be covered by the building to be zero usable open space. What is the open area used for now? Through the chair, the open area is a separately assessed parcel. It is used for parking, but not parking required for the building. I would determine as convenience parking. We are CDA parking variants for this proposal. However, we have arranged not as part of the formal and solar use. We have arranged for four oxygen parking spaces, but then closed walking distance of the site. That was in response to some of the comments that we heard from the neighborhood. So there's currently a curb cut into that space now. You would close that off and and have street parking there instead. That would be correct. In our original iteration of this project, where we did have four stories, we weren't proposing to have some ground level parking. That was met with some concern and resistance from some of others. The removal of the curb cut on marriage, certainly will return on street parking for the public. And that was a seem to be a good compromise, especially since we're able to find some remote parking to associate with building. Thank you. To pick up on Mr. and to pick up on the road. And to pick up on the road. So what is the distance from the building, the current building to the butter? And the current and the proposed building from anything about it. Because I just want to make sure that we're not, in fact, eliminating lighting air and all those necessary things to the butter. And that's possible new construction on any of budding lot. So, presently, I believe the setback that I'm curious about 18 feet and width. The zoning district permits a two and a half foot setback. If this were considered a side yard, because we are dealing with the core lock condition, we essentially have side yards on both. Marien and Saratoga Street on the Saratoga Street elevation. We are attached to building next to us. And we're not going to be the condition on the rear because we are further back than our building immediately to our left on Saratoga. We are proposing a setback. I believe it's a two and a half feet on the. The marriage to elevation, which would be consistent with a typical side yard setback for buildings in the two up 2000 district. Okay. And I understand, you know, the community conversation about parking. As the applicant of the developer looked at decreasing the number of units. And in fact, decompressing the parking situation by providing. The parking space on the parking spaces on the undeveloped block in support of this building. So we did that originally, Madam Chair, the configuration of the building in order to accommodate that resulted in an increase in height of vertical addition as well. We opted to eliminate that. I think my question is, you know, can you has the developer looked at maintaining the height, decreasing the number of units and providing off street parking. And perhaps some associated open space. We did look at with the kind version. We did look at an option that actually had two parking spaces. And we did look at the parking space on the proposed addition. It would be probably not feasible to add the parking under the existing structure. If we're preserving the existing structure. Engineering wise, it would probably be very difficult to do that. So we did look at the option of two. We did. And there was sort of a mixed commentary on this, but because we are within relatively short walking distance of airport station, we did. Here's support from a button is that said that they. They would be a project that recognize power essentials as well. Because of its proximity to airport T station, as well as the opportunity to remove that curcut and add some on street parking for the public. Okay. Let's just see Mr. Domingo. Did you have a comment? Yes, I would just wondering if there is any parking provided. I haven't seen a parking plan at all. I haven't seen anything. If any parking spaces that we provided. If there are, I would like to critique the design. There's no parking proposed on the display on Mr. Domingo. Okay, thank you. Okay. Any other questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak in support? And then followed by opposition? Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board and the entire needs is with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. The board was a member of the board of the board. I met with the Maverick Central Neighborhood Association in the December of 2021. The association voted into the board of the project. They like the unit sizes. And their letters had some concerns regarding number of units. And we are addition. But they're happy to see changes that will prove the conditions of the existing property. At this moment, our office will take to the floor. Madam Chair, I have no raise hand. Madam Chair, we do have some letters. I would support we have one letter of opposition. Madam Chair, I have no raise hand at the moment. Okay. May I hear from the BPD as the city's planning agency? Thank you, Madam Chair. I'm support Jeff Hampton, BPD. We recommended denial on this just because of the massing. In our recommendation, we also cited the lack of usable open space and also the setback for the addition on Marion Street. Understanding that this is a nonconforming structure already. Our concerns are mainly with Marion Street. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, if I can just add, I understand that the BPD is position. I'm dealing with corner lots that this is always a challenge to have. Either gap between the building for open space that looks more like an empty lot versus actually developing the site. Typically, it's not uncommon to see the corner lots developed in this manner. Yeah, my thought is that the developer could have been a little bit more thoughtful and figured out a way to. You know, get not not bank of their largest ROI, but figure out a way to make this long term usable because, you know, sometimes, you know, people work in places that are not. You know, blue line accessible or something else. So, or they work out hours, whatever it is. And so it's, it's, it's that is this supposed to be rental or. Or purchase. This is intended for ownership. So these would be con. Okay. Okay. So given all that information, may I have a motion, please? Can we just see your rendering up on the screen, please? What sheet should we be looking at? You can go to 19, would probably be a good rendering or 17 as an elevation. Alright, someone wants to go ahead with the motion. That's fine. I was running the screen today. Can you guys just go back to the plans? Thank you. The page 17 is the elevation and 19 or the primary. Yeah, you have to move. I'm going to go further down, perhaps that's 12 and 17. I'm going to go ahead and move. Any one of those will probably work. So I'm going to make. I hear everyone's concerns, but I drive around that area a lot and these. I saw it to the neighborhood. I'll make a motion to approve, but with some heavy BPD a design review to try to match. The surrounding buildings. Is there a second? I'll second that motion secretary. All those in favor. Hi. Hi. I'm opposed because I do think that the applicant could have been more creative on this one, but motion carries for approval with design review. Thank you very much. Madam chairman of the board. All the next case calling B O A 129 19 6835 up to the street. This is the unit three constructing new rear balcony with steel frame, the new exterior door of the by a list article 64 section nine section nine townhouse, roll house extension to the rear yard. I'm going to move to the next one. I'm going to move to the next one. Name an address to the record, please. This is John Greenup. Council for the applicant. And my address is box three zero six nine four Cambridge Massachusetts. And I'm joined today by Matt Serese, who is the. Contractor in charge of the project. And. So a question is. Yes, I believe it is we can go down. And what is and what is the dimension of that bracket supported balcony? It's six by 23 feet. Okay. Okay. How are the plans, Mr Robinson? Plans are good at confirming is a bracket mounted. And as dimensions as are as indicated, no questions. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak and support our opposition of this proposal? Hi, yes, I'm good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board can Chris really from the mayor's office of neighborhood services. I have to like to defer to the board on this matter and a button meeting was held on March 16th of 2022. Where support was shown by the others. Thank you. Good morning, Madam of the chair members of the board and a Calvary on from council president. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I'm going to have no way to say that the moment may have a motion, please. I'll make a motion to approve. BPD inside of you. Has it been the landmarks? Yes, I believe it's been. Yes, and I think it has. I think it's been the first time I've seen this. I think it's been the first time I've seen this. I think it's been the first time I've seen this. We don't need to see the landmarks that are already stamped off on it. Okay. I didn't know if they had. So there's a second all those in favor. Hi. Any opposed? Motion carries. Calling the next case. Calling the B.O.A. 117-79912. 82 to 84 Boston Street. This is the construct a single-phase digital billboard. This is the work of the department. The last one is the sign of the Section 40. Signed regulations. Freestanding signs used to be used for bidden. Article 9 Section 1. Extension of an nonconforming uses conditional. Article 11 Section 6. Signs are subject to other regulations. Article 33 Section 16. Fear rate. Pylon sign is the bidden. Article 65 Section 9. Side-yard residential. Dimension is insufficient. Article 11 Section 9. Do the propitious. This is a integer. Signed falls into the ground and the independent director. property of 8. I'm sorry Councillor, what was the dimension of that billboard 14 by 8? 14 by 48. Okay, go ahead. So this will be constructed to the rear of the property of 82 through 84 Boston Street on Interstate 93, which is owned by the Polish American Citizens Club, a nonprofit organization. A conditional permit will be required if this is approved. We understand and we respect the board in the city's position on billboards, but this is not. So Councillor, can you just talk through the billboards so we can understand it in context of the lot? Is there anything that will show it where it's going to be on the lot and any rendering or anything about that billboard? Well the blancer, which was submitted as far as the plans that you do have, was would show the actual location of the billboard on the rear of the property, overlooking Interstate 93. Okay, tell us what sheet we should be looking at. So this should be, I mean, it should be right at 21. 21, sorry. Great. Okay. And so this would be a digital billboard then? Yes, correct. So we understand and we respect the board in the city's position on billboards, but this is a unique proposal that would also assist in the city's vision of decluttering billboard signs and residential neighborhoods. We've committed to removing three existing locations from the doochester neighborhoods and replacing of adding one of this digital face single billboard on Interstate 93, a location where billboard should be enough within our neighborhoods. One of those three locations have been currently identified, which will remove four faces from the neighborhood. That is in the area of free port street in doochester raft. The other two locations will soon be identified, collaboratively working together with our District City Councilor Baker's office and as well as the local civic association. Further, we would request that if this is approved, that no permit shall issue into those three locations have been officially removed from our neighborhoods. And those all legal billboards are the illegal billboards because we know we do have a lot of illegal billboards in our city. So those are all legal billboards as far as to my knowledge, to the best of my knowledge there. So there are active conversations with the landlords, which have been identified as far as three locations. One again has been confirmed in the previous locations as I stated on doochester raft and free mont street, which consists of four faces of billboards. So there's actually two billboards on the property that are double face that will be removed. And again, those are within our residential neighborhoods. And then the two other locations will be determined obviously prior to having a permit issue if this shall be approved. And again, we would request that a proviso be added stating that no permit shall issue until these three locations have been determined and have been removed as discussed here today. Okay, so it looks like no new billboards shall be allowed within 600 feet of a federally funded highway subject to the Federal Highway Beautification Act unless approved by the Board of Appeal. Okay, got it. How are the plans, Mr. Robinson? Well, there's no, I guess I would expect to see some visual aid of this in terms of its context from interstate 93 from the adjacent bridge across 93. Some other visuals there. This is the only real drawing that shows anything associated with it. So it's a little hard for me to assess. I mean, the information is here in terms of the basic construction of the billboard, but nothing related to its visual impact on anything. Madam Chair, Secretary, have you seen the VPDs recommendation? Yes, we'll wait till we get there. So a little hard for me to assess it from anything other than what it is, I think. Okay. So hold on, Mr. Counselor. So this is free standing. This is in a residential sub district. It's a 3 FD 2000 district. Will there be parking below that? How is it going to work? So there is no parking below there. So as you can see, well, try to, try to depict the actual picture. So as you can see here, there is, this is the rear of the property interstate 93. It will be all overseeing. As you may see that there's Ross and Street, there's three, a butters that will have any sort of visual. These are the only a bars that will have some sort of visual, which would be minimal visual of the actual sign. They'll have a side view. So which is great for us is that there's this new light blocking technology that I'm sure Peter McCleary can get a little bit more. No, no, we know about that and we know how neighborhoods feel that in certain neighborhoods they're just, they don't, they're not responsive. So if I look at this, it looks like you're adding a two story edition. Is that right to this building? No, there is no two story edition. This is going to be on the existing condition of the building itself. So again, there will be a free standing pile on not attached to the, to the rear of the building. It would just be placed in the, in the backyard of the building. Very cool. Okay. And, and is that trying yellow parcel there also owned by the applicant? Correct. Yes, it is. Okay. Also, the app and has committed to the neighbors of new, some new plantings to prevent any sort of an eye sore from 93 that they actually do have. And it also would help with the exhaust that they do that does accumulate from interstate 93 as well. Okay. Any questions from the board? Yeah, I'm a little confused about a couple things. We don't have a rendering. Is that correct? We don't, to be able to see how it is viewed from, from various angles from the neighborhood. That's question number one. And then question number two, I was very confused about this concept of three other built, existing billboards coming down in exchange for this. That's the proposal. Where are those billboards? What are they? And, and, and are they all owned by the same, just seems like a, I don't think I've ever heard anything like that before. Great. So, so, yes. Alright. So I can get a little bit more into the actual billboard to sell. So, the, the, the operator has committed to removing free existing static locations. As, as you know, the, this location here is overlooking 93. And again, the city's vision is, is the declutter some of these static signs that are actually in the middle of our residential neighborhoods. We've worked together with the district counselor and the, the, the, local civic, or or former civic association. We determined one location. And it's in the vicinity of Dua Chester Ave in Fremont Street. That location there has two billboards double faced. So there's four faces that actually will be removed from this location. And again, as far as the other two, those are still collaboratively being worked together along with the district counselor in the local civic group to determine those two locations to try to find more of the, the static locations that have fact into our neighborhood that we can. So let the operators and active discussions with some of these land owners. So, so I think counselor, what we're trying to understand is, are these potential billboards that are, these billboards are proposed to be eliminated? Are they owned by the same media company? No, there are. Are they, they're potentially buying out other other media companies then? I don't know the exact terms, I just know that there's active bombers. And there, but that goes to the heart of my question. How can you commit to removing other billboards that you don't control? Well, the active conversations that these guys have committed prior, you know, to hand in other locations outside of the city of Boston have come to fruition. And the intention is to have their proviso if in fact these throw locations do not come down no permit shell issue. So. OK. And all right. So that OK. And then my other initial question had to do with the rendering of how it looks. With Eric, do we have anything like that? We don't. I mean, are you sitting and you just one question? You said free Mod Street or free port street? Is this a? Initially, initially said free port, but it's free Mod because you've said that twice. It's free port street. You can do a chest report. It's not free Mod. It's free. Yeah. That's my apologies. OK. Excuse me. If I might add something Peter McClarate from media partners, we do have visual renderings. And I'm not entirely sure why they haven't been delivered to the board because we've had to present them to our butters and the civic association, including Mr. Homme. So they can't be provided right now. Maybe they should be provided. OK. Hold on. Yeah. Let me just go now for to see if there's anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition. Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board, George Quinn, with the mayor's office and your best services. Our office hosted in the buzz meaningful proposal on September 23, 2021. There were mix opinions on the digital billboard. Those in opposition cited potential negative effects of light pollution on neighbors and distractions on drivers. Those in support spoke in favor of the benefits of the billboard and what they would provide for the Polish club. Months pass with the developer continued outreach and since March, the most immediate butters expressed support in the McCormick Civic Association voted in support of the proposal. The bordering Columbia Seven Hill Civic has written a letter opposition. At the time our office would like to defer judgment to the board. Thank you. Madam Chair, Secretary here, we do have those left. We have letters of support. We also have the letters of opposition. Madam Chair, ma'am. Madam Chair, ma'am. The board of Paul Sol and on behalf of the City Council of Lodge, Michael Flarey. The council would like to note that this project is gone through extensive community process. And as a result of received support from direct to putters as well as the areas of the association, the project will move three billboards from the surrounding area that are considered a blight. And importantly, this billboard will enable a long time, area nonprofit, the Polish-American and the Polish-Northodox Office, through main operation. Therefore, council Flarey, let's go on record of support. Thank you. Madam Chair, do you have a few raised stands? Start with the Elizabeth. Stop. You're going to need to can you say to name an Agus for the record, please? I alluded. I can you hear me? Yes, yes. Can you say to name an Agus for the record? Yes, my name is Elizabeth. I have a chaper, I live at 31 Rossin Street. I am the most immediate about that billboard. And I will only, only about our that will view this directly that will be impacted by the board board. And I support the project. I support the projects, which was like growing the area on Polish and the American citizen club is an important organization for the Polish community. It has been around for seven years. And the billboard is the only thing that will keep it survived for the entry. So that's what I know. Hey, can I, anybody else, so speak, please give us new information. And after you speak, please lower your hand. And Peter, your next can you say to name an Agus for the record? Sure. My name is Peter Dizek. My address is 141 Dorchester Avenue, Unit 220 in South Boston. I am actually the current treasure of the Polish American citizens club. I just wanted to briefly, first off, thanks for giving me the opportunity to speak. And I just wanted to take a quick second to talk about. No, hold on. Your, your, your, your Tony gave us the information that we need. We know the Polish American club. I'd like to hear from the butters on this proposal. Thank you, Peter. Thank you. And Alexander. Hello, can you hear me? Yes. My name is Alexander Kvalczyk. I live at 54 St. Margaret Street. I'm here in support of the project. The Polish club is a pillar of the community. It preserves the Polish identity and the Polish triangle. I was a resident. I just wanted to express my support for this project. Thank you. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I'm not. But. Yeah. So do I have to ask that you could please name an address for the weapon? What's my name? William, Tribuko 28, Rosson Street, your Chester, math. I want to say, the morning members of the board, my wife and I have child care responsibilities. So I need to make my testimony brief. My name is William Tribuko. And like Alexander is the father of Marta, we reside within 100 feet of this proposal. My wife has given me her authority. Can send to her, her behalf teacher as his child, her is музы. Tell me, are you in support of our project? I'm getting to that right now, too. You should have my my wife's email support on record. I asked using reference mortgons so, on behalf of my my wife, myself. We support this proposal as a gesture of peace going forward for all parties involved and most importantly, our families well being. Thank you. Thank you. May I? Mr. Ambassador? Thank you. Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Thank you. Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Mr. Chairman, may I just want to recognize your question? Yes, hi, good morning. My name is Erica Mineshuk-Sox. My address is 13-door says street in Rochester, Mass. I've been a resident of the Polish Triangle for almost 15 years. I also grew up in this neighborhood. And in addition to just being a member to living in the community for as long as I have, I have been a member of the Polish club. I am currently on the board. And I want to just kind of point out that this bill board would sustain the future of this club. We have been around. Thank you. No, thank you. We are very familiar with the club they've been before us before. So thank you. No, no, no. So, Mr. Ambassador, any more rights to hand? No, no. May I hear from the BPDA, the city's planning agency? Thank you, Madam Chair, members of the board. I have a question for you. I would like to ask, Mr. Ambassador, we have a question of the board. I have a question of the board, Jeff Hampton, BPDA. As with all electronic science and billboards, we recommended denial. We feel that it's an inappropriate location. Also, without any sort of rendering being submitted as part of our review, we couldn't make a recommendation anyway. To support it, but our policy is to always oppose electronic billboards. And we need policy for a very long time. Yes. Okay, got it. Given that information, may I have a motion, please? I'll make a motion to approve with the following provisors that the permit doesn't issue until the applicant figures out the three billboards that will be removed. I know they figured out one with the additional two. And BPDA designer view. Sarah, second. I'll second secretary. All those in favor? Aye. I sure would help you out of render it. No, hold on. Hold on. We're in a motion state. We kind of know what billboards look like. So I hear two voices in support of that three voices in support of the motion and the provisors is ever so whoever is in opposition, please raise your voices. I'm an opposite and Jean. Eric's in opposition. I'm in opposition. So the motion does not carry. So is that right? I make another version. No, so it's been denied. I'm not sure if it's been denied. Mr. Robinson, I believe state of you would like to make a motion. Yes. But there's three opposition. So it's been denied. Thank you. Following next case. 215- 2021-21 militant surface rule.� 312-8008441μέers outer. Hi, thank you for the state of the attendee. I'm not sure why it's not turning on my camera. I'm not sure if it was a panelist. I try to make it a panelist and get accepted. I'm off right again. Okay. Okay, come on. So tell us what you're proposing. Thank you. I apologize for the little technical difficulty. Good morning, members of the board. My name is Mark. I am the owner of 41 Dorstreet in Fort Hill, Roxbury, Boston. I currently owner occupied the building with my family. My plan here is to essentially create a curb cut in the back of the property on the rear of the lot in order to create off street parking. This is on Lambert Avenue and it's Lambert Avenue on the left side. If you're coming down the road is a no parking side. So this would not be removing any parking off the street. And it would be essentially creating space for one to two vehicles. The building was his had been empty for quite a bit of time. And now there are over 10 occupants living in it and a lot of cars. So in speaking to my abouters, a lot of them were in support just to avoid congestion on this corner. So tell us. So if I'm looking at the drawing that's up on the screen. Your property line. See your property line. Is not does not go to the chain link fence. That is city of Boston property back there. Correct. That chain link fence has been there pre existing. I did not put it there. Okay, so you'll probably need the dash line in the back. Right. Right. Just to put the building is the. Is the property. Right. Yes. It's the first line from the building. Yes. Okay. Okay. Can everybody please mute? Okay. How's plans, Mr. Robin? I think that the lands are good. I think that. It's not a front yard per sag. It's a side yard, but it is quite close to the property line due to the sort of. I'd like to hear Mr. Domingo's. Or pose on this and it is noted as a 14 foot curb cut. I think we typically propose a 10 foot curb cut for residential, but no other questions other than that. Mr. Domingo. Madam. Madam. Madam. The land of the parking area is much too small. The minimum would be 36 feet. And this is only 26 feet. I think that the potential for it all the hang on the sidewalks. So I'm going to recommend denial. Thank you. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition of this proposal? Good morning, Madam Chair and members of the board. This is Jason again with the mayor's office and neighborhood services. Mark had met with the Highland Park neighborhood coalition on two separate occasions. One time just to reference his before case was the actual. The first time he met with the mayor was a local public park. The mayor was a roof deck that they had agreed on, but they did oppose the two parking spaces sighting that they felt that it was not enough at the space for the parking. But then also additionally they were parking concerns with the. With the location that he had chosen as there were city ballers installed there and with the plans that he has shown to the coalition. So the mayor was a little bit more careful. Folks coming out from Lambert outside and actually having a few. Carden is absent. So folks don't feel safe with the proposal that Mark has given here, but do welcome them back to show any new changes to the proposal. Thank you. Madam Chair, Secretary, we do have letters of support. We also have one letter of opposition and the opposition was with the mayor just stated about the ballings. I do have one raised hand on Zion. Send them a question. You. Please get your name and I just put a record please if you're looking to give testimony here. Also have Bob. You're the very. Bob, are you looking to give testimony here? We've heard from Bob. I'm going to add your last name to your to your identifier here. You have a motion please. Alex, I'll make a motion to approve. I think there is some ability to rework this a little bit. Maybe even keep two of the ballards. I think that's a good thing. And work with the BPA on seeing if they can go deeper and maybe not as much paving to the side. So I'll make a motion to approve with BPA designer view. Yeah, can we just. Maybe. Just maybe like a fence with like a gate to. You know, if we can just put that on the radar for design review and I'll second that. And then to reduce the curb cut size from 14. So all those are fine for me in terms of my approval. So out of a gate or fence to make sure there's no overhang. And then reduce the size of the curb cut and work with the BPA on screening and buffering and the existing ballards. To the best of their ability. So Mr Robinson, are we making a gate mandatory on this design review? Or just making sure that they don't overhang and we can push the spaces back as far as possible. Yes. A gate would be helpful. I think, but I guess not required. Whatever strategy that keeps it off the sidewalk. All right. Thank you. Is there there's a second all those in favor? I. Any opposed? Motion carries. Thank you everybody. Thank you. Thank you. Madam chair, it's now 1034. I'm going to call the 1030 cases for any deferrals or withdrawals to 1030 only. Give me the address first, please. 59.3. The problem. Hold on two seconds. One at a time. What was the first? Say it again. 59. Thank you for the record calling. The way 131176. 59.3. Name and address for the record place. I'm going to call the number of the number of registered lands 245 Sumner Street. East Boston. We have the petitioner. I. What are you are you requesting a deferral? I'm sorry. Yes. I'm sorry, Madam chair. So we did hear from the BPD on some of its recommendations on this. Like to go back and take a look to see if there's some way to rework some of the details on this. And we believe that we can work a little bit more closely with the neighborhood. So we have a few questions. I'm going to ask the staff. I'm going to ask the staff. Can I ask everybody to please mute your souls so that we can hear what's going on? May I have a motion please? Question for. There are a second. Second. All those in favor. I. Any opposed? Motion carries the date. Please. We have a date of July 12th at 1130. Madam chair, Mr. Secretary, is it possible to get after July 30th or before? July 1st? We can do. We can do August 9th. That's fine. Thank you. Okay. August 9th at 1130. Is there any other. Anybody else? 753 East Broadway. For the record. Only be away. 125. 753. 753. East Broadway. Name and address for the record please. Tom Miller, the committee of the bill and Boston representing the owner. We're going we're requesting deferral at the request of city council president. Flynn's office to continue to work on some issues. Address by the voters regarding parking and other matters. May I have a motion please? Motion for. Second. All those in favor. Any opposed? Motion carries. The date please. Have a date of July 12th at 1130. Thank you very much. Are there any other deferrals of the girls for 1030 only? Going back to the 930 cases. Calling B case. Be away. 130805423. Ariga Street. This is a poor slab relocating. Can you get some heating system? New ballot? Violation is out. 65. 69. Excessive. F.A.R. Name and address for the record please. It's Christie. Scott. Just. On the school. I know the honor. I can hear you go ahead. Hi, Kristen, I'm Sky speaking. We've not hearing. I'm just going to be here. Okay, let's just move to the next case, please. The audio wasn't working. Okay, let's go ahead, put your name and address on the record. Sure. My name is Kristen Driscoll, 23 Ariga Street, doorchester. And tell us, go ahead, just tell us what you're planning on doing. We'll be adding about 600 square feet to the basement of livable space. And then we'll be adding a storage room in the back. So what you see on the screen right now is the sort of existing space. It's really just the basement unfinished. And if you go to the next, hold on, can you please tell us a couple of things? Yes, this is one family or two family. It's a one family. Tell us about the floor to ceiling height in that basement. Sure. So the floor to ceiling height is seven feet, one inches. Okay. And then tell us again what is proposed for the basement? What kind of use in the basement? Yeah, we're proposing to use it as a family room and in office and to add a bathroom. And so we'll also be relocating the different systems down there to make that happen. Make that possible. Okay. And how is it connected to the first floor? What about the rest of the identification clause? So there's a staircase at the front. If you scroll down a little bit, you'll see right there. There's a staircase going up to the first floor. So we already have the existing staircase and a door. So it's a little bit of a space that goes from our entryway of our home. Okay. How are the plans from Sir Robinson? Plans are fine. It is below grade, but you know, as as the proponent. Summarized it looks like it's it's an extension of their living space, not bedroom. So I think we should just maybe put a proviso for no bedrooms, but no questions on the school. Questions from the board. Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition of this proposal? Yes. Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board, George Wynn with Mayor's Office and Neighborhood Services. The applicants fly their neighbors and earn several letters of support. And the Pope's Hill Neighborhood Association, OSNO opposition. At this time, our office would like to defer to you. Everything is just I've been waiting. Madam Chair, Madam Sir the board, Joe McGeckren, City Council, Frank Baker's office. We'd like to go on record. It's going to be later on today. Please, whoever has their mics unmuted, please mute yourself. I'm not sure I have no additional base plans. Okay. Given that information may I have a motion? I'll make a motion to approve with the proviso. No bedrooms being the base, ma'am. I can't do that. I can't do that. All those in favor? Hi. Any opposed? Motion carries. Following the next case, calling B.O.A.1299393, 299 St. John Street. This to confirm, actually, the one family at a two-story month-off to an existing conforming single family residents. Remodel the interior spaces. The closed addition will exceed the out to the Florida ratio by 223 square feet. Violate, static, 55, section 9, excessive FAR. Even add goes to the record place. Hello. Good morning, Madam Chair and members of the board. This is Kim and Will Messenger of 29 St. John Street. And we're joined by our architect and forte. Explain to us what you're proposing to do. We're looking to put a small addition on this single family house to make more little buskies. What we're going to do is we're going to do a lot of work to make sure that the house is connected to the floor. So, I'm going to do a little bit of, uh, with the laundry and kitchen and storage on the first floor. Sorry laundry bathroom and storage on the first floor and bathroom and walking closet on the second floor. Okay. And that's a 223. And this is, um, this is, uh, owner, I'll keep that. Yes, ma'am. Uh, no questions very straightforward. Is any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition of the Supercursor? Yes, good morning, Madam Chair and members of the board. Tiffany Cavaido here from the mayor's office of new post services. This applicant under what an extensive community process, but had overwhelming support from director butters as well as to make a plain new for the council zoning subcommittee. I have three letters of support at this time. Additionally, the mayor's office would like to go on record and defer to the board judgment. Thank you. Second Madam Chair, secretary, and we do have those letters and they is off. It's just spoken of. Madam Chair, I have no right stance. May I have a motion, please? Uh, I'll make a motion to approve. I'll have a motion to approve. There are second. All those in favor? Any opposed? Motion carries. I'm calling the last case of 930 calling POA 11569255 to 7th Hooker Street. This is new construction of 9th of sale condominium units and 9.0 street pop street parking spaces. The value of the article 51 section 8 and 9th. Article 51 section 50.2. The appointment of the existing building alignment. Article 51 section 56. Article 51 section 9. Article 51 section 9. Article 51 section 9. The building has access to its stories. Article 51 section 9. The building has access to its feet. Article 51 section 9. Section 9. Section 9. Front yard is insufficient. Article 51 section 9. Side yard is insufficient. And Article 51 section 9. The radio is insufficient. The name and address for the record. Morning Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is Paul Rufo, an attorney in Boston. It's Miss Doug and Dylan Rufo representing the ownership Unicorn Inc. Mr. Akiolia. And with me is the architect on the project 10, Tanya Carrier. Just briefly, this is a 9.4 sale condominiums on a sort of a peninsula or a peninsula that exists at the corner of Royal Street and Hooker Street. It's surrounded on three sides by city streets and the area street is a paper street, meaning it's not paved, but it is there so that these combined lots will give us over 8,000 square feet. And we've been to the neighborhood. Mr. Rufo, while you while you have the screen, tell us about the proposal. We'll hear from everybody else about everything else, but you know, you're to tell us about the. That's a lot of violations. Talk us through it. Right. So it's a two family, five thousand zone. So we're looking for nine units. So that's that we need really for the for the for the use. The lot with complies the frontage complies with we've pulled the property back the FAR. A lot is 0.6 and we're looking for 1.87. As a need relief for that. The height. We're matching the height of the condos next door, but stepping down. So it that the height a lot is 40 40. I'm sorry, it's 35 feet. And we are at the highest point 42 feet. So the side you're complies on one side, but on the other side, it doesn't technically because Empire Street. I work too close to Empire Street, but as I say, Empire Street, the paper street, which is 20 feet wide. So we're marking. We propose nine spaces where 16 spaces are required. We have a six compact spaces and three full size spaces. So that is, I believe a summary of of the relief that we're requiring. And as I was saying, and a tiny. I just ask you a couple more questions. Can you roof decks being proposed? I guess I'd ask tiny there's a lot of outdoor space that she's designed into this to provide opportunities for the the owners of the condos to have outdoor space. I'm not sure if they qualify as roof decks or not. Are they just unit decks? There's no roof deck on the high roof. There is a roof terrace on the third floor, which is off of the top floor unit and private decks. So they're all private deck situations. And please give us a breakdown on the units in the square footage. There are eight two bedroom units, including three of the two bedroom units with a study and is one three bedroom unit. The unit sizes range for from 890 square feet at the smallest to the largest being 1700 and 30 square feet. The average size is about is over 1000 square feet. It's about 12,000 square feet. And what size of three bedroom? Three bedroom is 1,638 square feet. They're designed to obviously to be a tried family ownership. And any affordable units? No. So, you know, we have this usual dilemma. There are two things that that are an issue first. This is a two family sub district zoning sub district. And, you know, yes, you do have additional square footage on the lot, but not that much more. The issue is that we've seen a lot of projects come in at nine. Nine units so that there is no meeting of no, no affordable unit being proposed. So tell us what your thoughts are on both of those. I think in terms of the affordable unit, what they were, what the ownership was trying to design in was something that would be affordable with a small a to, you know, by designing these smaller two bedroom units. And that would allow for for home ownership. But in terms of the, you know, meeting the main main reason was directive, et cetera. Just really the economics of the deal is what the decision was. And in terms of the lot itself, because it is surrounded on three sides, it's sort of a transitional area between these roadhouses along the Royal street. And that's the transition into the two family neighborhood. So we felt there was enough of a buffer, especially was providing a street parking between the condos, which are just immediately south of the building. And the two family neighborhood, which is just to the east. That was that was the thought process behind that. So, I think that was the answer to Robinson. Plans are good. I think they represent well, I think the, I feel like the scale on Royal is certainly a little bit more consistent with the sort of scale that I think the transitioning down to the two families are quite getting there yet in my opinion. And in general, no real questions about the proposal teams as proponent is up on. Okay, any other, any questions from the board? Yeah, I'm a question of the drawing and they're wondering, it looks like there's nothing on the roof. In a 300 elevation, you can scroll down to that looks like there's a rather large head house or something that is not a keeps scrolling down. Keep going, keep going. Go to the elevation, but there we go. One. Oh, what is that big blocky thing on top of the roof? It's not on the rendering. Okay, so time to carry again closer design. That is the stair to the roof, which is required by code for story. And is there an elevator in there? No, just the elevator penthouse, the elevator won't stop at the roof. Okay, seems sort of like a large for a stairwell. It could potentially be reduced by sloping down with the, you know, some of the stair. That was prepared. Yeah, okay. It's not, by the way, it's not, it doesn't show on the rendering. I guess you're a benefit. I think this is going to be one of the do's scale. Okay, yes, we can do that. Any other questions from the board? Madam, can you do me a great place at some of the site? Mr. Domingo, go ahead. I'm just Bob Domingo, Madam Chair and members of the board, Bob Domingo, BTT. And I just want to make sure that the curb cut doesn't move. Otherwise, it'll take a permit from public works. And let's see. That's about it. I just want to make sure that the curb cut is in place. And is not complies. Thank you. And I just want to, I'll go on the record, you know, we've seen proposals like this, particularly in Brighton before with very large units that just happened to come in at nine. You know, the massing of the building. Compared to what we usually see, you got large, oversized units that could be made smaller and animal units and get some affordability in here. And I'm going to go on record with that. Also, you know, we just, anyway, actually our reserve comment is anybody here to speak in support or an opposition of this proposal. Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor Newman with the Mayor's Office, Neighborhood Services. At this time, the mayor's office like to defer judgments to the board. And the mayor's office is a very important information on the community process was pretty lengthy. The mayor's office conducted several of the butter's meetings and the app could also help their own meetings as well with neighborhoods. They presented to the Austin Civic Association and the Bright Austin Improvement Association. And I think that's a great opportunity to have some meetings. Some residents like that it's going to bring on our occupied units to a neighborhood that has a very low ratio. Other residents have expressed concerns about the proposed density as we're moving into North Austin on. Hooker and Royal Street where there's smaller households, as well as concerns about. And the community and the community. And the community is also a very important and important meeting competition in that area as well. The Bright Austin Improvement Association voted to support with BPA design review and restrictions that there be deep restrictions. Is there an isn't this in Austin? This is Austin. Yeah. The ACA voted to what an ACA vote. And the DVA should have a letter on file. Their membership couldn't reach a clear consensus. I guess it was put evenly where I like I said some residents like that it was on our occupied to be bringing on our. You bring a homeownership opportunities neighborhood, other stuff that was far too dense. This particular part of the also. Thank you. Good morning. This is Marma Crave and Councillor Readon's office. The Councillor would like to refer to the ACA on this project. If the project is approved, the Councillor would also like to ask for BPA design review. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Hold on. Hold on. Everybody. Thank you. Everybody please. Okay. Go ahead, Mr. Fortune. Thank you, Madam Chair. We do have letters of. We do have letters of support. We do have letters of opposition as well. The project is too big for the area. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Vagrant. Thank you. We're about 20 letters in support of. Mr. Vagrant, hold on. Okay. Sorry. Mr. Vagrant, share has to. Okay. Anybody else? We're either in support or in opposition. Madam Chair, we do have a few raised hands. I'll start with Richard. We'll use his name and address for the blanket, please. Yeah. My name is Richard Modjers, 37 to 53 Royal Street. I'm a direct-to-butter. I've lived in lower-elts and for 25 years. I just like to. Just about two minutes. I want to just urge the ZBA to. Decline all 10 variances that are required. If allowed, it's going to set a precedent in the neighborhood for being the tallest residential building in the two family. 5,000 zone. It'll create a frenzy of development applications and speculation in the neighborhood. Based on the new height precedent. Also, I believe that there's a lot of neighbors and residents that are not appearing at this hearing or may not have written to the ZBA because of the extensive community process. The developers actually need eight very attractive specific promises at the meeting to make the development more viable. But on Friday and an email to a limited group of people, they walked back six of those those promises. Basically, you know, revoking them in their email. They shaved $240,000 from their first promise to offset the development. With the deeded open space. Saying that it's not economical. This is a quote for a project of that size for the developer to spend that money to address the issue. And it should be the responsibility of the city to remedy. So they're talking here about the re-greening and the drainage, the parking and the traffic calming. That means that after they increase the density and the traffic and deliveries. They leave town with the profits and they leave behind that burden. So the taxpayers and the neighbors in the city to deal with those. They created soon and nutshell. After promising these attractive offsets to the neighbors. They revoked them and a lot of those neighbors believed that they were coming. Thank you. And please anybody else who speak give us new information. I have any. Yes, good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. Tony Dessedora representing the Austin. A civic association. Madam chair, it's come as no surprise that we have new construction and established residential. A neighborhood. It very reality is a unanimous decision. As was mentioned previously by the Office of neighborhood services. The vote of the ACA was basically a. The mayor was in the middle of the slide. The majority opposing the project. And just to recap those people who those members who support the project. Site the nine home ownership opportunities. The proponent did make a commitment for 100% on a occupancy. They felt that the parking one to one ratio was adequate. that actually showed us their pro forma early in the process that justified what was at the time considered very reasonable seal prices for the units. And then on the other side, Madam Chair, those members that opposed the project, they cite the takedown of a two-family home, height and density, increased the vehicular traffic was a concern and they felt that the design was not conducive to assimilating into the existing neighborhood. So basically, it was pretty much cut down the middle with a slight majority opposing the broker. Thank you. And I do have Catherine. Second. So a different question on you. Can you state your name and address for the record please? Hi, Catherine. Hello? Hello? Hello? Hello? Hello? Hello? Hi, you miss Caca Pagan. I'm from the neighborhood. Hi. Thank you. Hi, thank you. Sorry, there's a lot of echo there. Who cannot hear you? Hello? Okay. Hello? Yes. Yes. I have no additional assistance. I have no additional assistance. It's traffic and you want to, was she on two devices? I don't think so. I don't see her name twice here. It's really traffic. I have no additional assistance. Okay. Given that information, may I have a motion? Is there a second? Second. All those in favor? Hi. Any opposed? Motion carries. The proposal has been denied. Madam Chair, would you like to take a few moments? Are we all right, sir? Let's go ahead because, and we'll take a break at 1130, okay? Please have you decide. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. All right. Call the first case for a 1030. Calling to BOA. 127. 247. 1247. 277. Saratoga Street. This is a change of art from a single family dwelling to a two family dwelling. Violation. 53. Sex with 56. Osprey parking is insufficient. Is that enough? I'll be right back. I'll be right back. Madam Chair, I'll be right back. May I address for the record? Good morning, board members. It's chairman Toblan Lemos. 247. Saratoga Street. He's bossing. So tell us what you're proposing to do? Yeah. So me and my dad, me own this single family house in East Boston, but obviously we're getting older and we'd like to stay in the house but right now it's only a single family house so what we'd like to do is build it to a two family so that my parents are saying one unit and then I and my brother could say in the other unit so we're turning a single family into a two family but not taking the building down just getting the inside and doing the renovation from within. Okay is there any proposed living space in the basement? Okay so and tell us about that basement space? Yes there's a two bedroom and a bathroom and then just the washing dryer. Okay so I would recommend a deferral because this might be inadequately cited because the only citation here is for off street parking and basement occupancy is is forbidden in Easty and it looks like also the BPDA is talking about coastal flooding and so all these you know raise a level of doubt with me whether this has been cited adequately and the violations have been cited adequately so may I have a motion for the for all to give the applicant an opportunity to get this re looked at by ISD. I'll make a motion to defer. Sir, is that going to call those in favor? Hi, can you oppose the date please? We'll have a date of July 12th at 1130. Okay, so applicant please talk to the staff at ISD at the Board of Appeal Office because we don't want to have you come back again and again because it so that you just clean everything up and deal with everything the first time around. Okay? Yes, so no no, so please talk to the staff. Okay? Yes, just coming as a little bit of a surprise just be ready. No got it not it completely but we just it's it's it's it'll be too long to benefit. Okay, next. I'll call the next two cases calling B O A 1278 157 486 to 490 Medford Street. There's a companion case B O A 129 988 0 117 Baldwin Street. Well 486 490 Medford Street this is construction of one and celery off street parking space to the total right side of 490 Medford Street House for one vehicle of a motor vehicle for 117 Baldwin Street to be assessed by an easement. The violation dotical 9 section 2 not performing use change. Article 10 section 1 the limitation of parking area. Article 62 section 8 the dimensional regulation in sufficient open space. Article 62 section 29 O street parking that the design maneuverability and Article 62 section 7 used the regulations in celery parking use as conditional. This is for 117 Baldwin Street creating one and celery off street parking space 117 Baldwin owner to be located on open space 486 490 Medford Street. The violation dotical 62 section 7 used in regulations in celery parking is conditional. Name and address for the record please. I'm just waiting to answer it. I mean I had to give being a Mitch here to get tested to weigh on this. Yeah, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Are you are you speaking with me or someone else speaking? This is mentioned. You mentioned you have to see your hand as raised here before 86. My friend. I am. Okay. So I'm going to get some. Miss Ambassador it sounds like an Ian who's here to present. That's correct. Okay please put your name and address on the record. Sure I'm on his Ian or cart from none of the client and infest at 155 C. Portable of our embossed and I'm. I just made them a panelist of the cut out. Go ahead Ian. Okay I'm sorry about that. Hi, my name is Ian or cart from none of the client and infest at 155 C. Portable of our embossed and I'm here representing the appellate Jesse McDonnell. And also with me is the appellate Jesse McDonnell and council. For the butter we'll be using the space Michael Coral. So tell us how this is supposed to work? Okay so the appellate built three adjoining townhouses fronting on Medford Street about a year or so ago and associated with that zoning case. There was a lawsuit and a settlement within a butter to provide one-on-street parking space adjacent to before 86 to 490 Medford Street so you'll you'll see it there where it says parking easement for the benefit of 117 Baldwin Street so we're seeking relief to create this parking space and allow ancillary parking for in a butter to use it. And so that the townhouses how many units in that townhouse? Three. So three and what's so that's that which so that's a Medford Street? 486 to 490 Medford Street out of three. And what's at 17 Baldwin? 117 Baldwin Street. The abotic. So 100 units though. I believe that's a single family. That's a single family. And so that those townhouses needed to come to this board for approval? Yes correct. Was it approved with any provisos? No I mean maybe you know be ready to sign with you but nothing in addition. Okay tell us what plan we should look at to see how this is going to work. Was it the previous plan we were looking at? That's helpful. I did I did provide a a rendering of a car entering the parking space. I'm not sure if that's in the package that you have before you. Oh yeah. I don't remember. Yeah. It doesn't appear to be. Mr Robinson can you please help edify here? Sure. Yeah I don't have a rendering or anything up the as the proponent is referencing. I mean it does seem like there's a small area that's existing on the eye. Hold on could I ask whoever's working the plan can you hold on to this please? Because it looks like so. So the proposal Mr. O'Cart is to have one space by the side of the building and then what? Just explain it to us. I'm having a red diamond understanding it. That's it really so there's a there's an existing drive. Jason to the building which the abotter has a legal right to use. So he'll access by the existing curb cut. Pull into the space and pull out the same way. So there will be a parking space with landscaping beside 46 to 494 street. And and where's the front door to these to these townhouses? Is it choppy street? That's right. Frontier on that. So in essence this would be could possibly be front yard parking then. And what's the dimension of that space? It's 12 by 26.7 and it's largest in 25 on the other side. Okay how are the plans Mr. Robinson? I mean the plans depict it so it is a little bit of an odd residual space that looks like they're trying to utilize for a parking for. You're saying the parking is for the the person on at 117 which is around the corner. That's correct. Okay so they park here walk around on the public way around to their unit or they're building down the street. I'll just say yes correct. So no questions. Okay so okay um there's already front yard garages on this for these townhouses. So you're continuing that use to the front yard for accessing parking. Yes. So there's three garages that underneath the three townhouses on Medford street right. Correct each unit that was the townhouse unit that was created has the existing parking underneath. First of all parking. And how do they so they act so in essence what we're looking at on this on this what's up on the screen is in act is inaccurate because then there are actually three cop cuts. Yeah there's a huge yeah there's three curb cuts a huge one for two townhouses and then maybe for the third and then in this new area. Okay thank you Mr. Fanado Mr. Domingo. Mr. Domingo please keep put you can you get on the record please. I'm sorry I'm sorry. Poppings will be TD. First of all the curb cut does not align with the proposed parking space and secondly there is parking on this street on this side both sides actually. So it resulted in a private parking space which we are opposed to. Okay thank you. Okay is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition? Good morning Madam Chair members of the board. I'm Keel and Stapleton from Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. Our office would like to defer to the board on this matter. Our office held in the letters meeting on March 22nd where there was concerns regarding the parking spot being for non-resident of the condo association as part of the easement. That was expressed by the letters along with issues regarding safety. Questions were addressed by the applicant but I received 11 letters of support and four letters of opposition. Thank you. Madam Chair we do have those letters that may have spoken out. May it's office. Madam Chair I do have a few raised hands on mustow with Jesse. Can you stick your name and address to the record please? Good morning this is Jesse McDonald, 9 Valmont Street in Charlestown. My name is on this case here. I was one of the partners in the development team. And I just wanted to show if I can I can share that. No no just verbally talk to us. Okay sure yeah I just I just want to get clarified if it helps to kind of scroll through there. I just want to maybe provide a little bit better kind of visual image for you guys to kind conceptualize what we're trying to achieve here for the for the owners at 117, Baldwin. We have the easement. Okay, miss him. So can you hold on can I just hear from anybody else and then I want to have the BPA on the record? Michael go ahead. Can you say your name and address for the record please? Yes Michael Cabral, 611 Main Street Winchester on behalf of Gary Kerr and Karen Kerr, a butters to the property and you would have access to this parking space in support obviously of the space itself wanted to confirm as well that this is the result of litigation that allowed these three townhouses to be built in the first place and also to state that all unit owners had noticed of this easement that would be on the condominium property as well. Thank you. It does create obviously additional Austrian space that would then create additional parking in the neighborhood as well. Thank you. Mr. Hampton. Thank you Madam Chair. Members of the board, Jeff Hanton, VPVA. We recommended to know with our prejudice. One of our main reasons was insufficient open space which when you see the project there's none where this parking was anyway but we're in agreement with BTD. This would be either a massive curb cut where it's going to be the third curb cut in a row and we're opposed to this proposal. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Ambassador, anybody else if you have any other questions? We have a motion please. Madam Chair. Yeah. I just for the sake of trying to keep this more along with everyone's scheduled. I just I feel like maybe we've rolled through one section of that plan that doesn't adequately show what we're trying to achieve. I honestly have to say I'm very disappointed with this presentation. I would expect that the technical people who are hired to present on behalf of the applicant would make sure that we and they were really presented with a clear narrative on what is proposed, clearly in context of what's happening. So given that information, I just need a motion. Madam Chair, I just want to try to show you an image that's all trying to do. No, okay. I'm just going to deny without bridging us. Is there a second? Is there a second? Okay, motion does not carry me. I have another motion. It's not sharing your second. I second. Gary, did you second that? Okay, all those in favor? I think. Any opposed? Motion carries. So, you know, let's look for another proposal from you. Calling the next case. Calling the VLA 1306634 40 union park. This is a full-cut demolition. Couldn't normal work. Violations Article 32 Section 4G caught up with ability. Article 64 Section 9 access of FAR, the basement, dormant increase. Article 64 Section 34, restricted roof structure regulations, reconfiguration of the roof profile and setback. Name an address for the record place. Morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. Mark LeCasse, LeCasse Laugh, 75 Arlington Street in Boston. With me are the homeowners who will be the end users of this building after the renovation project, Caitlin McGovern and her husband Connor Piggett, our architects, our mellows and Paladino and the contractor is Holland and Sun Construction Company. There is a G-Cod conditionally used permit as the first item on the refusal letter, Madam Chair. Can you please go to the other other please describe what's being proposed and tell us about the violations? Yes, there should be on record as there's uploaded into the ISD portal, the revised plans that showed a corrected refusal letter eliminating the FAR violation, leaving the sole item for consideration a conditional use permit for the restricted roof structure, which is a dormer on the top floor in the rear of the property with a small roof deck there on accessed by hatch. Tell us about the basement living. So the basement is existing living space that has always been there. It is a full walk out in the back and if we scroll down to the elevations you'll see that what is proposed for the lower level is a full set of windows for the ceiling and the basement will be these are existing a little bit further and these are the proposed floor plans. Next slide will be the elevation. Sorry, keep going. All right, stop here. So, no. The garden level floor plan is the next slide please. No, back, sorry, the other direction. Yes, stop right here. Garden level plan on the left hand side shows a living area in the rear of the building, which as I mentioned is a full walk out and in exercise room a half bath and a small bedroom in the front with a window well in the front yard that's existing and the ceiling right is eight four and the distance from the basement floor to the lower sill in that egress window is 30 inches. And this is a single family so okay, so tell us about that roof deck. We could scroll ahead to an elevation. The roof deck is here 238 square feet at the rear of the building on the public alley on top of what is proposed as the new dormer accessed by a hatch. Okay, I can scroll ahead just a bit more. There's an elevation as well showing the right there on the right is the proposed dormer with the roof deck on the top. And if you just scroll the screen down a little bit more you'll see that there are large windows on the lowest level that's the full walk out condition that leads to the rear patio of the yard. Okay, Kristen, you please tell us about G-Card. Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, good morning. Christmas, Minnelli, Boston, Brawler, trust and we have both letters from the applicant. Thank you. Madam Chair, we have those letters as well. Thank you. How are the plans, Mr. Robinson? Plans are good. I think no questions. It's as advertised, fairly simple. All the addition work is in toward the rear as well in terms of the back of the building. So no questions. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition of this proposal? Yes, I'm G-Card, Madam Chair, members of the board. Impressually from the House of Neighborhood Services, I'd like to defer to the board on this matter. We held the letters meeting in March of 2022, we're both support with shown by the letters as well as the new partner of the association. Thank you. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board, Anna Caledon from Council President's Flings office. The councilor would like to go on recording support. We also received nine letters of support on this proposal. Thank you. Madam Chair, Secretary here, we do have those letters of support in the Mayors office. Madam Chair, I have no other hands. May I have a motion, please? I'll make a motion to approve. Thank you. Is there a second? Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Thank you so much. Colleague, next case, Colleague, B-O-A-1-3-0-8-4-1-1-B, this is the remodeled revisement for this petitioner only. For a takeout, use 36A, a new restaurant to be built out as new Salonky Greek restaurant. Violation, tactical six, section four, the new, the other conditions necessary for protection. Name an address for the right to please. I do see a way in one second. Jonathan Mendes, sorry, are you here for this proposal? Correct. Okay, go ahead. Hi, yes. Jonathan Mendes, Chief Operating Officer, Salonky Greek. So tell us what's being proposed. I believe there is a zoning issue where it does not permit takeout of any kind at this location. We are going into a second generation restaurant space that used to be the Peperi Grill on the corner of, I believe it's a tremot. Actually, don't know the cross street, but it's at one beacon, that tower right there. It's a freestanding little building there. It was kind of iconic for a very long time. We are just, we're essentially the exact same type of restaurant or fast-catchable restaurant. Think of us kind of as a Greek Chipotle. I'm sorry, so you have the who will be running this restaurant? We will. It's our company. Okay. Is it your fourth location? Your fourth location in the city of Boston? Second in the city of Boston and the other two are in the city of Cambridge. And you have experience with takeout? Yes, correct. We've been in business since 2016. Okay. Now are the plans, Mr. Robinson? Plans are good. I know this space well. I did prepare it back in the day, so appreciate the challenges ahead of them in this space. That's a good luck with that. No questions on the proposed scope. Okay. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak in sport or in opposition of this proposal? This good morning Madam Chair, members of the board. I'm all I've been from the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. We would like to defer to the board's judgment at this time. We're good at the applicant to do some neighborhood outreach and reach up to the Beacon Health Civic Association who doesn't really oversee the jurisdiction of Beacon Health. So at this time, we'd like to defer to the board's judgment. Thank you. Good morning, Madam Audit. I'm members of the Board. I'm Anna Caledon from Council Presidents Blink's Office. The Council will like to go on recording support. Thank you. And Madam Chair, I have no additional questions at the moment. May I have a motion please? I'd like to make a motion to approve with a typical takeout license and provide those in for this afternoon only. All those in favor? Any opposed? Motion carries. You're all set. Good luck. Following the next case, calling B-O-A-124-455-423, I fully wrote. The ad, this is to add a driveway adjacent to their home, the Violation Staticle 55 Section 40, R-3-Packen, Inc. and Subficient, and Article 55 Section 9 beside the ad is insufficient. I even have just for the record. Please wait. I'll let you be just after a minute. Okay, second Jeff. I would like to request to unmute you. Hi Jeff, can you hear us? Sorry, I can hear you now. Yeah, I can hear you now. Sorry that you're on a couple of different areas. Hi, Jeffrey Messierry, 23-Ifley Road, apartment 2, Jamaica Plain Mass. I'm representing the owner of the home who are in a messier with my mother. Hey, so tell us, is this a one family or two family? This is actually a three family home. This is a three family. And tell us how you are proposing to add the driveway? So we already have a driveway when my father bought the home. Back in I believe it was 1962, the driveway space already existed. However, there's no curb cut. So we would just like to be able to make a curb cut so that my mother and my aunt, who's elderly, can access the driveway since there's no street parking anymore. And is there street parking on this side of the street? Or no street walking at all? No, so there's street parking on both sides. However, it fills up ever since they built 42- 100-wash the street. All the street parking is occupied by 6 p.m. My mother and my aunt go work late nights. So when they come, they often have to park 200 blocks in the house. Okay. Okay. Yep, the Ripley Facts of the house. Okay. So how are the plans, Mr. Robinson? The plans show the condition. It's very tight. I think it's dimension is 8 foot 6 clear at the house, which I think would be limited. There is retaining walls on both sides of the driveway. And that is kind of there, and a gate. But there's no curb cut. Okay. Mr. Domingo? Yes. Madam Chair Lady and members of the Board of Public Domingo BTC. I feel bad, but the plan doesn't work. It's much too narrow. And there might be difficulty for maneuverability, and as well as out. And I, as much as I feel bad, I'd have to request denial. I'm not going to say that. If I may, if I may, if I may speak, the driveway is very big. I don't think the plan is just a case. So you can fit a hammer in that driveway very easily. We went through the pool. That's, you know, I'm going to say it's going to, it's fine if you can fit a homerun, but can you get a person in and out of the hammer? Very easily. If you look at the approval images, the driveway is very big. We had a approval by the Jakey Zoning Committee. So we need to really know and we rely on Mr. Domingo. If you submit us plans with dimensions, that's what we need to go with. I think the, just for clarification purposes, I think additionally, the problem is we don't allow front yard parking. So there's not, there is plenty of space in the front yard, but I don't think there's enough space as you move the car into next to the building to allow for the size. So I understand what the proponent is saying, the problem is we can't allow you to park in the front yard. That's not, that's not allowed. So, hold on, Mr. Messery, the question is though, it looks like this driveway is limited by two retaining walls. And so that's why I'm just wondering if this is at all doable for a homeowner who's been there a long time and who's now impacted by, you know, actions, actions of approval of the other project. And I just saw something. Okay. Any other questions from the board? I mean, looking at Google Maps, this driveway extends all the way to the rear of the building. Obviously can't tell what the width dimensions are in Google Maps, but it looks like it's a usable driveway. I have to assume the dimensions that we're given are correct, but I don't know. Okay. I mean, all they're looking for is a curb cut. They're not looking for the driveway's existing condition. Yep. Okay. Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition? Hi, yes. Good morning, Madam Chair and members of the board. Tiffany Colledo here from the mayor's office of Newport Services. The butter's meeting was facilitated by our office on October 21, 2021, with community support from Newport Associations and Director butters. Additionally, this poll received support from the Eglison Square Newport Association, the Brookside Newport Association and the Jamaica Plain Newport Council is joining subcommittee. At this time, I don't have any letters of opposition. So in all the mayor's office would like to unrecord and defer the board's judgment. Thank you. Thank you. I'm Jeremy Hall solid. Council of Aged Michael Flaherty. Knowing of no, knowing opposition to council like to go and record support. Madam Chair, I have no raised hands at the moment. We have a motion, please. I'll make a motion to approve with BPA designer view to see if we can make sure there's no front yard parking. There's second. And a quick curb minimum. And all those in favor? Aye. Aye. Opposed? Motion carries. Thank you very much. You're welcome. Good luck. Let's see. It's 1130. Mr. Fortune. Holding 2130, Madam Chair. Shall we do deferrals and then take a break? Sure we can do that. I'm going to call the 1130 for rediscussion. Any deferrals or withdrawals? 20. 20 Hinckley Street. Thank you. For the record calling B.O.A. 125. 8638. 20 Hinckley Street. Name an address for the record, please. Thank you, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Attorney Jeff Dregor with Dregor and Tusconna with the business address. 11 Beacon Street. We are seeking an administrative deferral. We are seeking an administrative deferral. We are seeking an administrative deferral. We are seeking an administrative deferral. At the last hearing, we did get our plans in immediately. We were notified by the ZBA board that a secretary that they did not get the refusal letter back in time and had to be. Ties with correct and new violations. So we would speak an administrative deferral. Chair motion. Thank you. Any opposed? Motion carries. The date, please. We will have a date of July 12th at 1130. Thank you very much. Any other deferrals or withdrawals for the rediscussion at 1130? The board meeting is now adjourned until 1150. Recordings stopped. The board meeting is now adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. The board meeting is adjourned. Thank you. You've changed it safely. We've changed it safely. Thank you Thank you for the reminder. The meeting for the Board of the PM meeting for May 10th is back in session. Mr. Fortune. I call the continuation of the 1030 cases. filing case BOA 131050729. I'm sorry. Case BOA 124385378 to 7B Jones Avenue. This is a finished abacement. It's two new bedrooms and unit and change the market for mature to three family dwelling. The violations, article 60 section nine. The full area issue is excessive. Article 60 section nine, the usual open space is insufficient. Article 60 section 60-9, the additional water areas is insufficient. Article 60 section eight. And dwelling unit is forbidden in the basement. And article 60 section 37, OSPRE, parking is insufficient. Name and address for the record please. No substantial say you on. Yes, I'm here. Yeah, good morning everyone. Yeah, the only reason for moving to all the doors turned that basement is unfinished basement into a two bed room. You know, it's like a wish we see on a join. And very much is a second is a two family house with really nice high condition. That is why they are looking for. Okay, so tell us about the floor to ceiling height in that basement. Tell us about the floor to sill height in the bedrooms. And tell us about how if utilities are separated. Yeah, all the utilities gonna be separated and gonna be relocated there. This is where the floor and the floor are divided back of the units on the basement. There's ceiling height, all the three right. I don't have that exactly with me, but it's over a fifth on an entire basement. Bedrooms everywhere. And you can see the grass windows for those bedrooms and other separate countries for the basement unit. And what's the floor to cell height? That is, I do not have that with me, but that is all I know it's over a fifth. Floor to cell height, window cell height. Oh, there the floor to windows to height is gonna be 40, 30, 38 or 40 between 30 and 40 inches. Okay, and then where is there a driveway on this property? There is a driveway on this side and the right side of the house is where the front of the house. That is a driveway, home driveway. And we have a lot of space on the back yard or to create like six cars on the back, away and on the side of the house, there are three cars that we can see. Okay, and the bedrooms to the windows, the open onto the driveway, or where do they open onto? On our opposite side. Okay. Mr. Robinson, it's not yet one, but I'm gonna ask you help on this, how are the plans? The, you know, I think this is, we're running in a similar issue with that we've had. The height in the basement's dimension to seven feet, it does show two foot six, but they are basically showing area wells for the bedroom units. And there's no really other windows available to the natural light for this unit below. Great. And we have to recognize that in this zoning district, the, let's see, the dwelling unit is of a bit of use in the basement. And in addition, the applicant is asking, even though there are already two units for variants from the parking requirement. Correct. Okay. Let's just, and it's two means of egress and everything? I do have the two means of egress covered, because they're adding us there to the left side from to gate access to this is a separate unit. Okay. Any questions from the board? Yeah, I'm a little confused about the floor of ceiling height. The applicant apparently stated that it was eight feet. And Mr. Robinson said it was seven foot one, showing the drawings. And if he wants to turn this from a two to three family, the code requires that there be a minimum seven foot six. So at least if we are saying that the plans are accurate, this is not code compliant. Right. Okay. It turns out it has set an individual object, folder to object. Except in four parts of the code. Tom, can you confirm whether this project was before this board? I'm out of jerem, I'm looking into it, I'll know when I find any records. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak, either in support or in opposition of this proposal? Yes, I'm one of Madam Chair and members of the board, down to people. So the mayor is also in the board. The mayor is also elected to first the board on this matter. The applicant had met with the Woodrow Avenue or Association on February 17th, where residents had shown concerns around the property being purchased through the neighborhood. Homes initiative, as there may be program or deed restrictions on the property, however the property seems to have been purchased through the program at market rate. There were also issues around on concerns around parking, Darf Sheep parking aspect of the project. There was also a meeting run by the office and the Wood services on March 21st, 2022, where the port was owned by the butter, but there was also parking concerned in regards to this small lot size and the driveway that we spoke about. The mayor's office did receive some support petition with names, some support petition with names of the butters that the applicants submitted to the board, as well as I sent it to the board, as well as another letter of support from another butter, the Greater Matter Pan, the neighborhood council had a post proposal and sent an allegation to the board, citing that they don't feel the drawings reflect what is being proposed and as they may be from 2017, so it may not be accurate. They also feel the applicants should apply through the additional well-in-unit program instead of filing for evidences and wanting to state that the neighborhood council is opposed to evidences for basement units. I don't believe the Woodrow Avenue, the Woodrow Avenue, the neighborhood association sent in a letter, but they do echo the sentiments of on concerns of some of the butters as well as the Greater Matter Pan, the neighborhood council. Again, the mayor's office would like to do the forward to the forward to the board on this map. Thank you. Well, Madam Chair, this is Tom. It looks like the property was built in 2017 as a right to come forward forward. Thank you. Was it part of the neighborhood homes initiative? No hold on, Mr. Olic, let's just find out if anybody else wants to give a pass to the committee. Okay, we'll go ahead. Hi, we do so I'm calling for the district force and the council's office. I didn't want to just speak and say that we are not in a sport like this project due to all the various reasons. I'm done. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, I have no raised hands. Thank you. Mr. Olic, go ahead. Well, I was just wondering whether the issue was raised about whether it was part of the neighborhood homes initiative, whether they're deep restrictions. Mr. Olic, this is Tom. According to the permit application, it is a part of the neighborhood homes initiative, but I don't know of any deep restrictions on the property that up in the registry. So, maybe the homes programs comes with their pre-designed building. Yeah. Right. And those don't look very, so anyway, so and they are already constructed and proposed to provide income to the homeowner for to provide income to the homeowner. So, I don't know what this means trying to move these from two to three families plus the basement use. Okay, so given all that information, may I have a motion, please? I'm going to make a motion to deny. Is there a second? I can. All those in favor? Aye. Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. I'm sorry. It's been denied. Good luck. On the next case, colleague B.O.A. 131050729 Hamilton Street is a four-story building designed to seniors 8602 and older. First floor of the community room, lobby game room, management office, meeting space total over 1000 square feet, one bicycle space per two units, indoors on the ground level, one motor vehicle space for three per three units in the garage and the building total of 36. The violation of Article 65 Section 8, elderly housing uses forbidden, Article 65 Section 42, conforming with existing building alignment, Article 65 Section 9 for 40-year ratios excessive, Article 65 Section 9, the building has excessive stories, Article 65 Section 9, the building has excessive feet, Article 65 Section 9, the radio ad is insufficient. They may not just fill the record please. All right. Sorry. I have two raised hands here. Sean, are you on for this case? Sean, who are you? Sorry. I'm needed to unmute myself. Thank you. Are you okay? Are you here for this proposal? I am. Okay, go ahead. Thank you. Just a minute, Chair. For the record attorney, Sean, we are the law firm of Packet Fineberg, 155 Federal Street, Boston. Period before you on behalf of the project sponsor, Vietnamese American Initiative for Development Inc. With me on the panel this morning, is Eric Fallinger, the director of real estate development for V at 8, as well as our project architects Cliff Walmart and Amelia Mamani, both of Davis Square architects. The purpose of this appeals to the existing zoning relief for the development of three parcels located in the Dorchester neighborhood, the SF 6000 sub-district. I'm sorry, what's the zoning district? SF 6000. I'm sorry. SF 6000. Okay. Two out. Two out. Sorry. Okay, sorry. You're actually my own. I apologize. Yes. And what's the size of the the lock, the total lock size? Total lock will be 19,359 square feet. Okay. Go ahead. Go ahead. I'm sorry. I'm in the presentation. No problem. Three parcels are 25 Hamilton, 29 Hamilton and 33 Hamilton. Again, aggregate size 19,359 square feet. V at 8 is a nonprofit developer with a mission to build strong vibrant and diverse communities. No, no. Can you go ahead, just tell us about the proposal, because the bulk of us know about V at 8. And so we just need to understand this proposal. No problem. The proposals to develop the redeveloped site into much needed affordable housing, consisting of 36 one bedroom residential apartments for seniors 62 and older. There will be associated community room, lobby, game room, management office, and meeting space, as well as an outdoor courtyard, 2,000 square feet, and 13 off street parking spaces located on the ground level underneath the building. The project's construction does require some set of zoning relief from this board, including elderly housing being a forbidden use. The application of conformity with the existing building alignment, the applicant is seeking a variance to demolish the existing building and construct a new four-storey building, which does not comply with the existing building alignment. We have excessive floor ratio of 1.9. There's excessive building height and building stories and insufficient rear yard. The proposal. Let's just back up for a minute. So how large are the proposed units? Each unit defer that question to Eric and Lord Davis square to answer the size of each particular unit. Thank you, Mayor. Eric Feliger, V at 8. The project is funded through and part through the Boston Mayor's Office of Housing, and we are meeting their minimum size requirements, I believe it's at least 610 square feet per one better unit. 610 square feet, okay? And are these all going to be affordable? Or is there a certain percentage that's going to be affordable? They are 100% affordable. 20 of the units will be restricted to 60% AMI and below, 7 of them to 50% AMI and the remaining 9 had 30% AMI. So it's 60 to 30% AMI? That is correct. Okay. And tell us about when your residence agent place, what is the drop-off pickup point for this building? Is Eric off street proposed? There is off street. We are designing the subsurface parking garage to accommodate an SSTA van and there will be elevator access to that level. There will also be a parking space we intend to work with Boston traffic to sign the space on street immediately in front of the building as a 15-minute space so that an SSTA van may stop there to make pickup's community. And how many staff people are you anticipating in this building? We anticipate perhaps one full-time staff at the most. But most of the community services will be delivered on, you know, and as needed basis with providers able to park all of the building on street. Okay. So the 13 spaces are both for residents and for residents and for staff. That is correct. Okay. And tell us so there's one bicycle unit, one bicycle space, but two units, and one garage space for three units. That's correct. Okay. Any roof deck proposed? No ma'am. No. Okay. But as you'll see in the renderings we have a substantial amount of the front yard dedicated as outdoor space for you to buy the residents. Did you had said there's 2,000 square feet, right? Approximately. Yeah. Okay. And then how many of these units are handicapped? Cliff or Amina, can you confirm? This is Cliff Palmer. I'm a print bullet, Davis Square Architects. We're exceeding MAAB requirements and in fact exceeding MOH requirements for of the units, which is 11% of the units will be group two level units. All of the other units in the building will be group one adaptable units. Okay. How are the plans, Mr. Robinson? Plans are good. I think it's a nice plan. It fits in pretty nicely. The slope of the site is, I think, well, sort of, tin care of in terms of the front yard courtyard. So, and the proposal is as proponents have submitted with no roof deck. So no real questions. It looks like a nice proposal. Any questions from the boy? Yeah. I have one question. I mean, it certainly seems like a worthy proposal. It seems a little bit out of context with the neighborhood. I look at Google Maps at Hamilton Street. And it's mostly two and three family, two and three decor two and three family at homes. This would be a significantly different use of the space from what I can tell. And we're just like to hear the proponents talk about that. Sure. Happy to. We acknowledge that point. We do think that the building fits in extremely nicely with the existing architecture, despite as you point out the the difference in scope. We have done an extensive community meeting process. We've had. Sorry, please answer, Mr. Erlich's question about context. So, in the well, in terms of neighborhood support, we have brought that point to the neighbors and they're accepting of that in terms of the building itself. Let me hand it back to to Collette to discuss that. Thank you very much for that comment. I wanted to point out a few things about the existing context. It is indeed true that there are many, many three families there. But it is important to note that most of those three families, if not all of them, do have stairways leading up to their entry level and floor floor heights that are equal or greater than our building. So, in fact, the height of our building really isn't that much greater than context. So, how much greater is it? Well, we're facing the street that you can see in the right turn to the left. That's at 43 feet. Our highest roof level on the street is 43 feet. Nearby buildings, they aren't the same, but they range anywhere from 35 to 40 feet. Once you count the stairways up into the entry level, I think the important thing to understand about the massing was that we put the biggest massing of the building is furthest away from the street. The slope from Hamilton, it goes down towards the south where we have a lot of space and distance from neighbors. So, it's an L-shaped building that really just, it was the small elevation immediately facing the street. And then the taller part because of the slope is in the back minimizing its impact. So, we did work hard with both BPDA and MOH to develop this massing that we think is really mentally impactful. I would also point out that when you do, Google Earth is a great tool for looking at this. The actual intensity of use of the site, while we are asking for a variance for FAR, most of the surrounding sites are very small sites with very little distance between the buildings with existing FARs that often are well above one point. What is your, this proposed FAR? I don't remember frankly, so one point nine. Just like to applaud, the increase in affordable housing, which is much needed in the city and in the nice use of open space. We don't see that typically. I think the next question is, I know this is V8 V8 development. Is it going to be open to the public in general? Of course, through the typical housing managed lottery process for affordable units. Okay. Let's see any more questions from the board. Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition of this proposal? Good afternoon Madam Chair, members of the board. Denise DeSantis from the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. I would like to go on record and say that the applicant has done a couple different community meetings as well as met with the neighborhood association. They have support from the neighborhood association. Some of the butters were concerned around density. At this time, our office would like to defer any comments to the board. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board. Joan McEckron, City Council of Frank Baker's office would like to go on record and support. Madam Chair, members of the board. Paul Solven, for City Council of Life, Michael Flaherry, Council of the Non-Recon support. Madam Chair, hello Madam Chair. Okay. Okay. Hello Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is Izzy Slater and I'm here on behalf of City Councilor Atmar and through the Legion. Our office would like to go on record and support of the project. Madam Chair, secretary here. We do have letters of support. Okay. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board. Christopher Rooney, Mayor's Office of Housing, 12 Channel Street Boston. M-O-H is in full support of this affordable senior housing project. Thank you. Mr. Rooney, I'd be surprised if you would. We put our money where our mouths are. Okay. Let's move on. Yep. Go ahead, Sean. You're going to unmute it. Can you say your name and address for the work, please? That was Sean Rear asking to be. Okay. Okay. Okay. As-asly. You've been unmuted. Hi, good afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the board. For the record, my name is Asta Ersem from Boston City Councilor at Large, and I'm here as office and we would like to go on record and support of this proposal. Thank you. Davida? You've been unmuted. Madam, I made Davida Angellman. Here we go. You're going to be there? Great. Yeah, yeah. Just wait for another meeting. Davida Angellman, 94-Clockston Street. I live actually blocking a half away from this project. I'm Chair of the Greater Bowen Geneva Naval Association. VIA-DA had gone above and beyond what they needed to do in terms of engaging the community. All the concerns, interests and recommendations of the community have been taken into consideration and have been respected. So we hope you will support this project. Thank you very much. I have no additional. I hope all this is going to panelist. I'll go ahead, Mayna. Thank you, Madame and Basel, the Madam Chair, members of the board, Mayna, for us to represent in the Carpenters Union. On behalf of Condor, so our members who live in Darsha, so I want to go on record and support. And Michelle? Hi, Michelle, State Representative Liz Miranda's office, our office would like to go on record and full support of the project. And we have also offered a letter of support as well. Thank you. Hi, PJ. Hi, I've been Joe Salu from District 4 City Councilor Brian Morales's office. The office would like to go on record giving its full support for this project. Thank you. Thank you. No, I'm sorry. Excellent. I was just having some technical difficulties. So I did not see the proposed building does it need design review? Yes, ma'am. We will be engaged with. No, no, no, no. I'm asking the board members. Sorry. Yes, but I think it will go through its final design review. Yes, ma'am. Okay, so may I have a motion, please? A motion will approve a PPD design review. All those in favor? Any opposed? Motion carries. So you're all set for that. The divisive. Thank you, ma'am. Call the next case. Call the BLA 129 146661444.chester Avenue. This said the policy exists in instruction. It's actually three story eight unit residential building with garage in front of the side roof decks. The violation of Article 65, Section 38. This is a specific design requirements. The street wall continuity and certain sub districts. Article 65, Section 9, the 40 year ratio is excessive. And Article 65, Section 9, the way God is insufficient. Name and address for the record please. That afternoon, Madam Chair and members of the board. My name is George Marancy. I'm an attorney with the business address of 350 West Broadway in South Boston. I represent Eddie O'Driskel with respect to the property. I client in the project architect Tim Johnson. I hear with us today. What is being proposed is the replacement of an existing two and a half story building with a new three story building containing a presidential unit. The existing building has been used for different purposes over years, including a funeral home, the church and as a two family dwelling. The lot size is 9,304 square feet and it's located in a multi-family residential local services zoning district. The ground floor here would consist of the garage for 10 vehicles, which meets code requirements. It would also include the main building entrance on Duet Chester Avenue. The garage entrance for an existing curb cut will be reconfigured in accordance with city regulations as the size. As well as a bicycle room, mail room, units storage, three-stop elevated, elevated conformed to accessibility requirements and utility rooms. The second and third floors would each contain four two bedroom units ranging in size from 1,070 to 1228 square feet. The roof would feature four centrally located 12 by 12 roof decks. One for each of the third floor units, access would be provided by Hatch. With respect to the zoning madam chair members, the building is nearly zoning compliant. The zoning refusal letter site's three violations. There's a violation for excessive floor area ratio. The maximum FAR here is 1. What is being proposed is an FAR of 1.029. So that's 29,1000 above the maximum FAR of 1. Another violation is for street wall continuity. Because this is an MFR-LS zoning sub-district, the code would actually require the building to have less of a front yard setback in order to be in alignment with the prevailing alignment in the street, which is set by the commercial building a block away at the corner of the center street. Our client believes it is much more appropriate to have a generous front yard setback, such as what is being proposed. Finally, there's a violation for insufficient rear yard setback. The rear setback requirement here is 30 feet, to follow the proposed setback areas from a minimum of six feet at two points where the building jogs, but 12 to 18 feet for much of the rest of the building. And I would know for the record that the setback of the existing building at its nearest point to the rear odd line is also approximately six feet. With that, Madam Chair, will pause and take any questions that members may have? So I understand that the existing building may be closer to the property line, however, it's a less impactful building. Is that the best that the applicant can do? What is the distance between the furthest rear yard line and the abutting property? I'll ask Kim Johnson if he has a measurement on the abutting building in the rear. Kim, do you have a distance for that? Not the distance, of course, to this rear property line, but to the building in the back. Yes, thank you, George. Madam Chair, Tim Johnson, the project architect. These would be two buildings directly behind us on Elm Lawn Street, number eight and number ten, we have worked closely with their rear yard setbacks, although I don't have an exact dimension, Madam Chair. I am going to estimate approximately 10 to 12 feet to their rear portion of their rear of their house. So in total then, with your six to 12 feet and their 12 feet, there should be a decent amount of separation then. I guess, Madam Chair. Also, we worked closely with the rear butters. We generated shadow studies and with the proposed building facing the wall. Oh, I get it. My concern is that, you know, how we impact in their rights in the future, you know, by having these buildings so close to the property line, this proposed building so close to property line. And that's why we jought the rear of the house building, Madam Chair, so we wouldn't have one straight facade facing the rear butters. And how is this design contextual for Dorchester app? Well, firstly, mostly it's three stories. The majority of the buildings along this area are three story buildings. Also, the fenestration, all the windows will be proportioned at two to one ratio. We'll be using a very standard exterior siding which is clappboard. We are also showing bay windows which are predominant along the side of the stretch of Dorchester app. And the main entry area is recessed with front decks supported by columns posting all the way down to the ground. Again, another feature of the triple deckers and the second empire Victorian buildings along the street section. Madam Chair, Madam Chair, Secretary, I got a question from Mr. Rasey. Was this project before or was before? It's fortunate George Rancy speaking. There was a larger project, a nine unit project that was denied without prejudice by the board. In April of 2021, I was not involved in that project and it was a different applicant. Okay, it was looked familiar. That's like, obviously fresh on my mind. Thank you. And Mr. Johnson, other bays on the property are over the sidewalk. No, Madam Chair. The bays are on the property. Excellent. Okay. Mr. Robinson, how are the plans? Plans are fine. They're good. I think it's it is consistent with the street. Obviously, it's a little bit more of a contemporary take. I do appreciate the bays and the decks on the front as you face Dorchester Avenue. And I think based on what it looks like, they're trying to mitigate any impact on the rear of buttons to the best of their ability. So in terms of the proposal, I really don't have any other questions. What's being proposed? Thank you. Is this proposed to be a lead building or lead certified in any way? This is Tim Johnson again. I know, Madam, this won't be lead certified. However, it will be 100% electrified for heating, cooling, and cooking. There'll be no fossil fuels coming into this building. Of course, it will be built to the stretch energy code, which is 20% more energy efficient than current code. And you speak to the landscaping on this site? The landscaping, we have, firstly with the rear butters working with fencing in the rear, and planting deciduous trees strategically placed along the rear of the property. We do not have a landscape planned per se, but we hope to generate one during PPDA design review. I hope I answered your question. Any other questions from the board? Okay, is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition of this proposal? Yes, good afternoon, Madam Chair. Members of the board, George Schrin with the Mayor's Office of the Nibbid Services, our office hosted in the butters meeting for the project on March 1st, some neighbors expressed concern in the facts, privacy and shade for which the proponent performed a shadow study. The Mars Area Civil Association voted in support of the proposal. However, some immediate butters have since changed their minds. At this time, our office would like to defer judgment to the board. Thank you. Do you have any idea what caused the change of heart with the butters? From my understanding, it was a couple of the most immediate butters, expressing some concern after the vote with density and with sort of a fact on their view and the shadow study. But that's kind of the civic association pretty much followed suit with what that immediate butters, what those couple immediate butters wanted. And since those few folks, she's her mind's, you know, that's kind of what happened there. Got it. Okay. Anybody else want to speak on this project? Madam Chair, Secretary, we do have letters of opposition. And, um, and the support, what is the opposition? They were opposed to the project when it was nine units. They're still opposed to it as eight projects as eight units. Okay. And, Madam Chair, I do have two raised hands. Second. Uh, start with Apple. You've been unmuted. Can you stay to name an address for the work, please? Hi, Apple. Okay. This is done. Hello. Hello. Can you say to name an address for the work, Ed? Yes. My name's Doug Hurley. I'm speaking on behalf of my mother, Agnes B. Hurley 79 years old. It doesn't understand the internet at 15th analog street, which is about eight homes away from this project. Okay. And in support of an opposition, at the Supervisor. Opposition? Okay. Thank you. Yes. I'm very familiar with this project. I'm the former president of the St. Marks Area Civic Association. Um, you know, you guys were nice enough to decline this project as a nine unit project, not much has changed since one less project. The owner immediately started to try to gain support after your denial in the past. And he intends to sell this project only if you approve it. If you approve this, he will sell it to the current. Okay. If you deny it, the deal is dead. So the project to me is only it's too big. It's too close to the neighbors. Um, we got in the fence. The neighbor already has a brand new fence that they put into years ago. It's just, it's not a good project for my neighborhood. Thank you. Okay. I have no additional waste paint at the moment. Um, Man, chair, I'd may I speak George Marancy? Yep. Oh, go ahead. Go ahead. I just want to reiterate again, just in terms of the zoning. Um, this is essentially zoning combined with respect to density. Floor area ratio. There's no height violation. There's no front yard setback violation in terms of this building not being set back by or not. Nor side yard violations. What we're really looking at here is a rear yard violation where the building is no closer. It is wider along a lot. Now, it's no closer than the existing building at two points. But most of this building is, you know, anywhere from 10 to 15 feet away from the rear lot line. And again, there's no height violation. And we did go through the exercise of producing shadow studies showing that there are no appreciable shadows to be cast on the buildings in the rear. So again, with the, with the, the conforming building height, you know, this would be, I mean, it's virtually zoning compliance. I'll just stand there. Okay. Um, so given all that information, may I have a motion, please? I'll make a motion to approve with BPD design review. I think for an extensive landscaping plan, also, I think I appreciate the proponents pulling back from Dorchester Avenue, but obviously, when pulling back, you're encroaching a little bit more on Elm Lawn Street. So I think if the BPD could look at the sighting of the building in general, and then just a general design review for the exterior materials. Is there a second? Okay. Okay. All those in favor? Hi. Hi. Hi. Any opposed? Motion carries. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Following the next case, calling B.O.A. 130, 6820, 175 Milton Street. Scope will record reframing the rural criteria cut renovation, and in addition to the existence single failing. The violation of Article 65, Section 41, Forestry Parking Loading, Article 65, Section 9, La Laudieries and Submission, Article 65, Section 9, La Fouille, Eurasia, and Successive, Article 65, Section 9, the building had Successive and Stories, Article 65, Section 9. Frontier is insufficient, and Article 65, Section 9, beside the other is insufficient. Name an address for the record. Madam Chair, members of the Board, Attorney Ryan Spitz with the Business Addresses, 350 West Broadway, South Boston. Our herewith me to A is Dennis Greenwood, the architect from Susan Design, on behalf of the owners Jonathan and Laura Lennahan. So this, as stated into the record, this is a proposal to create additional living space into an existing single-family dwelling within a 1F-5,000 sub-district. The proposal is going to consist to raise the roof line with the Gambrel structure addition while maintaining the existing looking character of the neighborhood. This will allow more access to a living area, and it will provide an additional 620 square-feet livable space. The first floor will add a new covered porch with an additional 10 feet of square square feet addition to widening the actual entrance way. The porch will be approximately about 25 feet wide and about 7 feet, I mean, 25 feet long, 7 feet wide. There will also be an 88 square foot addition to the left side of the house to match the footprint of the building. In the rear of the property, there will be a 5 and 11 and a half foot rear deck that will be added. The additional square-face will, the square footage would increase by 98 square feet accumulating to approximately 1199 square feet for the first floor plan. Second floor plan, there will be a new bay window on the front of the house that will add an additional 13 square feet. Further, the proposal will raise the footprint to the second floor with a rear addition by 77 square feet. Total square footage for the second floor plan will now result in 892 square feet. There also will be currently, there is a liable space in the basement. The basement will also be excavated to include the existing building footprint on the left-hand side, which will add an additional 118 square feet to the property to create more additional living space. The total square footage of the basement will now be 568 square feet. What is the proposed use of the basement? So the proposed use of the basement is just going to be an increase in the additional living space in here. We could find that on page six of the plans there, give you a little bit more insight on what it is, again, currently right now. And what's the total size of the addition? So it's... That's great. So the total for all the additions or just for the basement? All the additions. 929 square feet. So right now, the existing property is at 2353 square feet. And so the total of what's being proposed is at 3279. The FAR is already not conforming, what's required by the code is a .5. What is existing is a .52. This would increase the FAR to a .73. Can you please who... I'm sorry, who I was running the screen. Can you move back a couple of pages so we can see the basement blood? Thank you. That would be on page six. Page six? Oh, okay. So that's what is that? Do you see the basement? Is it a family room? Yes. Correct. Yes. There is a family room in the basement. So as you can see where the red area there is in the basement, that will be the additional square footage that will be excavated out just to match the existing footprint of the building. So that will again, that will be excavated out. We approximately have eight foot sailing height in the basement. And sorry, are there any bedrooms down there? No, no bedrooms. Madame Chair. Is there a kitchen down there? No kitchen, Madame Chair. Okay. But there is a bathroom down there. Thought it. How are the plans, Mr. Robinson? Plans are good. I think it's a, you know, it's a a lot of little ads here and there to looks like increased usability. No questions. And the proposal on the basement is an extension of a family room. It looks like for a little bit of more seating area, but nothing other than that. Any questions from the board? Is it not? There's a comment. The hedges are beautifully trimmed on Google Maps. Is anybody here to speak and support at this proposal or an opposition? Madame Chair, members of the board, George Wynn with the May's Office of Neighborhood Services, our office hosted in the butters meeting for the proposal on March 30th. We received no concerns from the committee or the seated groves of the association. At this time, our office would like to defer judgment to the board. Thank you. Madame Chair, members of the board, Joe Begekren, City Council of Frank Baker's office would like to go and record and support. Madame Chair, members of the board, Maul Solvin, City Council of Act Michael Clarity, Council of the Go Recon support. Madame Chair, Secretary here, we have letters of support as well. Okay. We have a raised hand here. One second. Dennis Greenwood, you can unmute it. Can you stay in and out of the for the marketplace? This is Dennis Greenwood. I'm actually the architect for the prion. I was just raising my hand in case there was any questions. All my apologies. I have no additional raise hands. May I have a motion, please? Motion over. I'll second that. All those in favor? Aye. Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries are all second. Good luck. Thank you. Thank you. On your next case, calling the DOA 130953061 pairs avenue. This is extending the existing driveway to the rear of the property and at six parking spaces at the rear, adding new retaining wall. The violation is out of line section one, extension of an 19 forming use, Article 10 section one, limitation of parking areas, and Article 65 section eight, and accessory parking to the existing is a forbid news, it's conditional. The amen, Adder, Polar Epic, please. Good afternoon, Madame Chair, members of the Board. My name is George Moran, and I'm attorney with Business Address of 350 West Broadway and Celp Boston. My client is Kevin Borum. He purchased 61 pierced avenue last June and has been renovating since that time within zoning requirements. Building is an existing three-family dwelling. It is in a two F 5000 zoning sub-distered, so it is a lawful, non-conforming use. The proposal is to add an area into rear yard for six parking spaces. The spaces would be 9.7 feet by 18 and a half feet, and the parking area will be accessed by an already existing curb cut and the driveway, which meets minimum width requirements. Sighted zoning violations are a bit esoteric, actually. One is for extension of a non-conforming use. It would be my position that this is cited incorrectly. The non-conforming use here is the existing three-family dwelling, but the use is not being extended. We're merely proposing to add parking. Parking is an accessory use. Plans of diameter are also cited at a conditional violation of the parking since it is accessory to a non-conforming use or other than performing use. Well, this is not technically incorrect. In over 30 years, it's never actually been cited. Hold on, Mr. Marancy. Can you give us details and tell us about the driveway? What's the side of that? What's the side of that? At its minimum point, it's 10 feet wide. So it can forms with code and BTB regulations for residential driveway. And is there parking on that side of the street? It's an existing curb cut. There is parking, but it's an existing curb cut. This isn't new. In fact, it would probably be reduced to be less wide than it is now. It would certainly be no more than 10 foot wide curb cut, 12 feet at the flares, but it is existing. It's been there for many years. And the other question is, what is the material to be used for that driveway? Is it going to be obvious or impervious materials? I guess, Madam Chair, that were this to be approved, my assumption because of screening and buffering requirements, it would be with BPDAA design review, in which case I would suggest the BPDAA would dictate what kind of materials would be used in terms of the painting of the parking area. But I would suggest, sorry, I would state that over 40% of the site that is unoccupied by the existing building would be green space, landscape-built space. There's no usable open space violation being created. In response to some current concerns at the embudder's meeting, my client assured that the existing shade trees in the rear of the site will be maintained, and he provided an updated landscape drawing showing privacy, screening, sensing, mulch fed, shrubbery. Unfortunately, because of the two-week requirement in terms of submitting updated plans to get them before the board on the hearing date, we weren't able to get the updated landscaping plan before the board today, but it has been produced. Okay, how are the plans, Mr. Robinson? Plans are good. No questions, and it appears as the council's outlined. I know issues. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak, either in support or in opposition of this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the board, George Flynn with the Mayor's Office Nipit Services, our office hosted an embudder's meeting for the proposal on November 29th, 2021. The point that has since made changes to the walls around the lot, north of the block, headlights from the button backyards. The locals of the organizations had no concerns. At this time, our office would like to defer adjustments to the board. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, John McAprin City Council, Frank Beak's office, would like to go on reckoning to support. Madam Chair, members of the board, both of them, the City Council, are like Michael Flery, the Council of the Gone Reckons support. Hi, Bob. Hi. Oh, yes, Bob, the Mayor of Boston Transportation Department. Madam Chair, ladies and members of the board, I'd like to request that space is three and four be removed for improved maneuverability and to our off-appropa screening and buffering. Thank you. Okay. Hi, I'm Dr. Ray's, 10, collar of 617-233. I'd like to request an unmuteing. Go ahead. Hello? I'm sorry, did you call me Michelle Burr? Yeah. Yeah. Hi, hello, Mr. Chair. Hi, Mr. Chair. Hi, Mr. Beak and please. So, Burr, and I live at 665-677 Avenue. In Dorchester, it's the property of budding 61-pierc avenue. And I appreciate, I was asked the butter's meeting back in November, and did Ray's concern about there being no sensing to provide for screening and muffins at that time. And I understand that a proposal has been made to add some sort of screening to the website of the property that my property to deal with that, but since I have a plan not available, I would have to defer to your committee on that. Thank you. But I... Okay. Okay, thank you. Let me just see Mr. Hampton. Thank you, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Jeff Hampton, VPDA. We went on the record recommending denial of this. We echo the sentiments of Bob Domingue, going BTT, that six spaces are too many in the backyard. Madam Chair, George Marancia, if I may. Just in response to Mr. Domingue and VPDA. I did have a conversation with Mr. Domingue about the two proposed parking spaces and question. For those two spaces, the central ones, the concern is that they are nearer than the other spaces to a reapporge structure. The distance between the rear wall, the parking space and the in the rear most space of the porches is 33 and a half feet. A Ford Explorer is about 16 and a half feet long, which means that there is a distance of an entire vehicle length to make the turn in and out of those two parking spaces for a large SUV. You know, never mind a smaller car. And I also do have to point out something that is not evident from the site plan, which is that the base of the porches structure is actually poured concrete, which varies from about one foot to three feet above grade. And that is what is supporting the porches structure. And I had one last question. What's the height of the retaining walls? The retaining walls on the site are three to four feet. I'm not certain, but they're obviously code. Yeah, there's nothing that violates code requirements. They're approximately three to four feet thereabouts. Okay, thank you. May I have a motion, please? I'll make a motion to approve with the VPDDA design review for screening and buffering and with BTD review for maneuverability. So screening and buffer, maneuverability, and can we look at various materials? Sure. Sure. Is there a second? Second. Where? All those in favor? Hi. Hi. Any opposed? Motion carries. So you're all set for those providers? Good luck. Thank you. Following the next case, calling the OA1310370389 to Ponset Avenue. This is a change of opportunity to include an ice cream shop at the first floor with basic storage. The violation is article 65, section 15. Restaurant would take out. Small is conditional. They may not just go to the record, please. Good afternoon, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Attorney John Colgini, 10th floor of the road of the right, on behalf of the applicant. So this is 399 to Ponset Avenue in Doorchester. It's located in the Deponset Business District. The zoning in this district is local convenience. As Mr. Fortune stated, it's a proposal to screen ice cream shop in the existing commercial building. This will be a subdivision of existing space with the, this side is an ice cream shop, the other side in the future will hopefully be a yoga studio. Performally, this was a very large dentist office. As you say, I love that going from yoga to ice cream. I'm not after the other, Madam Chair. The only violation is the conditional use of small takeout. The use of an ice cream shop isn't allowed use and there will also be no manufacturing of ice cream on site. As far as programming, the retail space will be approximately 586 square feet. Egress at side and front, all entrances are handicapped accessible. There will be a side service window in the alleyway to the left of the space. There will be accessible bathroom and the basement will be only for mechanical use and storage. And there will be approximately 797 square feet of storage in mechanical space of 365 square feet. And how will deliveries occur? So there is an alleyway where the deliveries can be done. Okay, to alleyway, okay. And the name of the business? Lazy beer ice cream, Madam Chair. How are the plans, Mr. Robinson? Plans are good. No question. Look forward to it. Come to the neighborhood. Any other questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition of this proposal? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board. George Flynn with the maintenance office name of services. Our office has heard no concerns from the community. I just sign up. I'd like to thank the board. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Joe McGatman, City Council, Frank Baker's office would like to go on a reckoning support. Madam, if you can, members of the board, Paul S隆, the Council, right? Make a flurry. Council, don't like that support. Madam Chair, I have no words. Thanks. May I have a motion, please? I'm purple with BPDA, designer of you. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? And is the usual takeout language? For the target, for the South, can only. Yep, takeout language in this applicant only. So, Ms. Fanado, are you comfortable with those? Okay. Those amendments are fine. There's a second. All those in favor? Aye. Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Thank you very much. Calling next. Case calling. The OA126-9408-256-1262-River Street. This is a change of our from pharmacy to function hall without alcohol. Violation, satical 69-68. Use this conditional. Name and address for the record, please. Good afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the board, Attorney Derek Small. Business and stress, I 51 adoption row. Chair, we're here today seeking relief. Change the legal action for the bill date from the pharmacy to a function hall. The zoning sub district is the neighborhood topic district. And our violation is that the use proposed is a conditional use. We're seeking a conditional use problem. Tell us more about this function hall. What are the hours of operation? What's the capacity, who is going to be running it? So the capacity is 224 patrons. The approximate square foot of the function hall is approximately 2777 square feet. And my clients are proposing to do wedding reception, graduation parties, things of that nature. Levering time, and Vincent Mulega, who are the proprietors, are also on the call. I don't know, Jessica, if you could unmute them. So I'm just curious. So it's going to be wedding reception, etc. without alcohol? That's correct. And so what we're proposing, Madam Chair, it will be that people, at least in the space, will have to go through city of Boston's licensing board to get one day at the attainment events and licenses in order to have functions that will continue out of the hall at the site. All right, see, so that's your walk around. Okay. Yeah, okay, a license. Okay. That's the bottom of the names there. So let's see what else. Where is parking proposed to be accommodated? There are, there's a municipal lot across the street, and then on street parking, there's no osteo-partner, this is a part of a bunch of businesses that are on the registry. Okay, and will there be any cooking on site? No, ma'am. That's not- No food preparation, anything on site. Okay, and is this going to be handicapped accessible? I believe it is. Again, it is. Okay. Okay. How would the plans, Mr. Robinson? Plans are fine. It, you know, looks pretty straightforward and it does appear to be accessible. Does it- is there any exterior changes to this? It looks like not, but so I'll make sure. No, there's no exterior changes. Okay. No questions. Pretty straightforward in terms of the plans. Any questions from the board? Has the app can have an experience running a function hall? I'll- Robert or Vincent, can you answer that? Is there a round of calls? Yes, I will- I will take that question. My name is Robert Tambi, for the record. Myself and Vincent Boligar acquire this place to add to the existing business with half year on reverse street. We very friendly in the community. Yes. I, personally, have an experience running a function or not in this state by the out of the Massachusetts, but we are people of very good character and this- this is something that we- we hope to hire and invent manager, because I'm a physical therapist, I will be in time and again. We have just a point of correction. Lawyers, small sales, 2000 square feet is actually 4200. I'm looking here at the sideline and the lease. And to answer one other question, which I think the Madame Chair expert we both missed it, is that the lease indicates that the functions are only evenings and weekends. So that idea of parking is actually swallowed by a mosquito. And let's just ask you the questions. The thing is, if there's an issue at any one of these events, who does somebody contact? Because it sounds like you're trying to see that the idea of hiring an event person kind of removes it from you. Let me clarify that aspect. Either myself or Vincent Buenigar, who are the owners or who are the managers, one of us would be on site at all times when there's a function. Even if we are offsite for a few minutes, we have a closed-secure security camera inside and surrounding the building that we can monitor from our phone or from any computer anywhere. Yes, but we will be actively involved in the management of the table. We need somebody with those social skills that can talk to people and get people of good character to hold events. And the other, I have two other questions, music. Generally, when we see function halls of bars or anything like that, there's a concern about keeping music volume down and putting it off at a certain time and security so that should there be any disruptions? There's some man that somebody there to deal with those. Yes, man. To that, we have a client in place. The first is that the place was initially wired, such that we can control the volume of the music that those security and those computers have placed in. Then number two, it is also soundproof. Number three, we don't allow our site speakers to be broken. Like some of those speakers that play at Fenway is on our standard contract from you come in with your music equipment and use our speakers which are no to moderate frequencies. That will not disturb the neighbors. And after that, there's no neighbor around there. At night, this is a typical CBD, central visit district area. Any other questions from the board? Is anybody to speak here and support our opposition? Morning, Madam Chair. Or excuse me, good afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the board. This is Danielle Fonseca with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. And the applicant's Robert and Vincent for this proposal completed the community process. They notified all the butters, mailing and distributing flyers for the community meeting that I hosted that was held on March 24th. At this community meeting, Hypert main streets was present. Some of the butters that were present at the community meeting verbally gave support for this project. In addition, we have letters of support that have been sent to the board. Just speaking on Robert and Vincent as business owners, as they also run the, they have a therapy. Yeah, a physical therapy shop that's a few doors down. So they were speaking on the character of them and just wanted to give support. At this time, we'd like to defer judgments to the board. Thank you. Danielle, was there any conversation about hours of operation, whether it was midnight of one or anything like that? There was questions around the concern of parking in that schedule. And when those questions were brought up, Robert and Vincent explained that they have parking in the back with the municipal lot is, as well as since this is the business commercial district area, there are several spaces for parking in the area as well. There were not concerns from any butters in terms of loud noise or music or how that would impact from that end. Okay. Sorry, we have a waste here. DJ Charlie. I sent a request under your new stick and I'm going to add this for the next case. I did afternoon on my name is Charles Williams, also known as DJ Charlie B, former Boston resident. I'm resided at 115 Leon Court in Hanson Mass. I am in support of this space. I am a, I work in the high park area. I have family relatives and many clients. Robert and Vincent, as many have mentioned, also on the physical therapy, which is next door. And this space will be good. Thank you, thank you, sir. Um, yeah. Thank you. Go ahead. Hello, Madame Chair, members of the board. My name is Izzy Slater and I'm here on behalf of City Councilor at Larger East, the Hougen. Our office would like to go on record in support of the project. Okay. Okay. So, Councillor. Yes. Okay. I have a couple of questions for you. So, so for this, for this place to operate without alcohol, they do not need a review by the licensing board, right? That is correct. So only with alcohol would they go to the licensing board, which would then determine hours of operation and what time the facility would close. I believe that is correct. Okay. So, um, okay. So this is a conditional use and I'm trying to figure out what the conditions might be. But may I have a motion because it looks like it is, of course, signage. To this applicant only and some form of control on closing hours, is it a 1 a.m. closing or a midnight closing? So they'll and please, Ms. Ambassador, you could mute everybody so the board can kind of talk this through. Any ideas? Um, how about the other things you mentioned are clear and the only question is the closing time. How about midnight during the week and 1 a.m. on the weekend? Okay. And 1 a.m. weekend. That's the reasonable. Would we put any kind of like, they come back to us in a year just to see how things are going? I'm keen on that. Um, yes. So, um, what do we want to say a year? Yeah, a year. So I can, I'll make a motion if you'd like. Sure. Is that somebody else? No, I was just going to, I was just going to request a two-year sunset class. No, we'd like to see, um, council, we'd like to see them before then just to see if there are any red flying issues that we should just be clear about. Is there going to be time to build out the space before it's operational? We can do a year from occupying. Yeah, let's just make sure we do a year from occupant T.C. Okay. I'll try to make a motion. So make a motion to approve, um, with a BPA review for signage. And then for hours of operation, close at 12 a.m. During the week and then 1 a.m. on Friday and Saturday nights and Sunday nights. That's a weekday or not. With a one year sunset clause or return to this board clause for, um, this review of the previous years. And to this applicant. And this applicant on the, yes, they wrote. And they wrote. From the certificate of occupancy. Yeah. Zero second. All those in favor. Any opposed? Motion carries. You're all set. Good luck. Okay, Madam. Good. Thank you so much. I'm good day. You too. I'll ask case for 10. I'm calling B.O.A. One two eight nine zero seven seven. Taking Depart agree to the developers independence work. OK. Punish give to founders. So we have to have stopped using MPO class order number. Prevented forward art. Empartane. He beat many int in following. Very intelligent.ign rate of a person. It's been a year since NASA signed in.uyor. Parking for four vehicles on the ground level. The Shawmedim completely. Spatial for four vehicles. specific design review, the street wall continuity of Bexley Road. Article 67, Section 32, OST Pagan is insufficient. Article 67, Section 12, the bill in the highest excessive at speed. Article 67, Section 12, the bill in the height is excessive in stories. And Article 67, Section 12, the floor data ratio is excessive. Name an address for the record, please. Good afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the board. I'm Dr. Bernie Matt Fitzgerald from DLA Piper, 33 Irish Street in Boston. Here on behalf of Juan Chavez, the applicant who is the owner of 4161-4164, Washington Street in Rosendale, also the longtime proprietor of the Autobody shop that exists in the location currently. Mr. Chavez is proposing at this location to demolish the existing one to two-story Autobody structure. And to construct in its place a four-story mixed-use building consisting of six residential units on floors two through four, two commercial units on the ground floor facing Washington Street, in four off-street parking spaces at the rear of the building to be accessed from Bexley Road. For a total of, for a total ground, gross floor area, excuse me, approximately 9,232 square feet. A lot of areas, approximately 3,150 square feet. The commercial units will each measure about 1,000 square feet consisting of 470 square feet. The basement, which will be used for storage purposes only. And on the first level, the commercial units will measure approximately 533 square feet. Each of the residential units on floors two through four will measure approximately 1,051 square feet. It will consist of three bedrooms and two bathrooms each. It's a neighborhood shopping sub-district within the Rosendale neighborhood district. As the secretary has just pointed out, we are seeking the lead for excessive FAR. The required FAR under the code is 1.0. We're proposing 2.96. The required height is three stores at 35 feet. We are proposing four stores and approximately 37 feet, 8.5 inches. We're seeking relief also for insufficient parking. In the neighborhood shopping district, two parking spaces are required per dwelling unit, as well as two parking spaces for 1,000 square feet. A gross floor area of office or retail space. So for this project, it would be a requirement of 16 parking spaces. We are proposing four. And the final two violations as the secretary pointed out where the traffic visibility across the corner, the corner of Bexley and Washington Street. And street wall continuity along Bexley Road, as we're reconstructing the wall on Bexley Road. And it's not going to be co-extensive with the structures along Bexley Road. As you might recall, this Mr. Chavez appeared before this board last year. I believe in July, July of 2021, with a similar project to use proposing four storey projects somewhere today, with two commercial units in one residential unit on the ground floor. Six residential units on floors two through four. So a total of seven residential units as opposed to six, which he's proposing today. He was not in, and I'm sorry, he was also proposing a shared roof deck without any parking. So no parking was being proposed at that time. As far as design is concerned, last year, he was proposing a double stair tower for access to the roof deck. So, Councillor, can I, whoever's running the screen and I apologize, can you go back to the very beginning? Because it looks like there are two lots. Are these lots going to be combined or are they already combined? It is just one lot, Madam Chair. It's a 3,150 square foot lot. It's just one lot. So it's a 3,150 square foot lot. I just want to, yes, because if I look, stop right here, please. So there's 9,000, so the building is 9,300 and the entire lot is 3,150. That's correct. Okay. And let me ask you, so there's no roof deck. Is this an elevator building? It is, Madam Chair. We are proposing an elevator to run from the basement to the roof. Okay. So, you know, this is marginally better than the last proposal. But tell us what kind of thought process, because I know Mr. Chavez has responded to the parking concerns, because I know that was raised. I think that was a very important question. It continues to be raised. It sounds like from all the letters that we've gotten. We've gotten as a ward about this project that parking continues to be an issue. And competition for parking at the street. So, however, the business community has voiced support for the commercial units. As you know, that's on this sort of the, that's right, sort of in the, in the Rosendale Square business district or on the outskirts of it, I should say. So, you know, dating back to when Mr. Chavez was proposing a project last year, he met with the business community who voiced concern about they're not originally not being proposed commercial spaces. So, in response to the business community's concerns, he had agreed to include two commercial spaces. And I think, frankly, Madam Chair, I think that is also consistent with the neighborhood shopping and sort of neighborhood business sub district zoning, where you have, I think it's fairly consistent, where you have commercial uses on the ground floor with residential, you know, on the second floor and above. So, let me ask you then the next question is that this is just a 3000 square foot lot. The FAR that's required is one and you're pushing it up close to three. Can you tell us how that's contextual then? Yeah, Madam Chair, I think it is, I think, I mean, as you pointed out, it's a small lot, you know, that is the reason for these violations. I mean, we have some serious law restrictions here, which is the reason why I think that, you know, we're only able to support four arc spaces, for example. But I think that, if you look at that corner between the Rosendale Square and FAR Stills, I think that you have many buildings like this that are, that are, you know, sort of have similar densities. And I think, you know, and I have heard this board very recently in speaking on projects in this area, specifically in this corridor, has stated that this corridor can support more density. I have heard this board say that. And so I think, and I think the reason why this, you know, the close to 3.0 FAR appears law worse than it is, it's because it is, you know, it is a small lot. And so that being said, I think it's very consistent with recently approved projects with projects that are in the area today. And, you know, projects that are sort of in the pipeline and pending that will likely appear before this board very soon. So, well, I certainly appreciate that, you know, a 1.0 requirement. And we're proposing 2.96. I can certainly appreciate the concern of the board. And I think that's, you know, it's a product of being on a small lot. But that being said, I think it's very, I think it's entirely consistent with what you're seeing in this area, and especially in that corridor between FAR Stills and Rosnil Square. How are the plans, Mr. Robinson? Plans are good. What was the ones you see at the, nothing, nothing hiding in here. So it's pretty straightforward. Okay, any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor Newman with the Mayor's Office of Services. This time the Mayor's Office is like to defer adjustments to the board. That's back information. The property owner has included more parking project this time around. And it's removed to share roof deck after concerns were expressed in the community. The owner has also had two environmental assessments saying there's no contamination. It's in the process of securing these new assessments for documentation. We still have heard concerns from the neighborhood regarding changes, what they feel would be to the character of the neighborhood, through the design of the building, the density, as well as competition for parking, which you heard earlier, especially regarding those commercial units, the ground floor, potentially impacting parking with the loading, loading zones and other vehicles. We received 13 letters of opposition this morning from local business leaders and also received two letters of support as well without we defer back to the board. Thank you. Some clarification. You'd receive opposition from business owners. Correct, Madam Chair. And did they state what their opposition is based on? Yes. So the things that stuck out some concerns about sight lines with the building, potentially impacted safety, where the interjects of the corner concerns about the character of the neighborhood, the building, not fitting in with the existing architecture and density. Thank you. Is there anybody else? Yeah. Good. Hi, good afternoon. Hey, this is council at large Julia, I believe that I also see Jordan, who is the chief of staff for Councillor, I hope, goes office. I'm not a manager, but I'm here as a large counselor to a state angle on the record in my support of this particular project. I do know that the folks won't have the work on it. This is not their first time in front of you and the community and they've done their door diligence to not only here, but also respond to the needs of the community and. And adjust your plans accordingly, so I'm here to offer my strong support on behalf of this project. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, and Jordan, go ahead. Good afternoon, Madam Chair, Madam Mr. Board. Jordan, for you, is your councilor, Ricardo, Royals office. You'd like to go on record to support this proposal. Thank you. Okay, thanks Jordan. Madam Chair, I'm sorry, I got a job. Madam Chair, Madam Chair, Madam Chair, Madam Chair, the board, Paul Salden, the city councilor, I have to make a clarity, councilor, I reckon, support. Thank you, Secretary, here we do have letters of support. We also have the letters of opposition as well. I do have a way of saying by Judith, can you state your name and address for the record please? My name is Judy Cooper. I am at the 117 Florence Street, a block away and Madam Chair, the board. We'd be concerned, and I'm talking against the proposal. The first is about density. The side street, Bexley, has two story homes. The main street, Washington Street, has single story commercial buildings, and at four stories, this proposed building would tower over the others in the area by at least two stories. I'm concerned that approval would set a precedent for two tall development on Washington Street, which would make it feel like a canyon and one of the reasons that I moved to the neighborhood was because of the low density. I would be okay, by the way, if they scaled it back to three stories. The second concern is that if when they come back with a revised proposal or if this does get approved, this stands at the corner of Bexley Road, which is on of only two access roads into the neighborhood. It's a major cut through, and I'm concerned that when the owners will come back with a revised plan or this gets approved, the construction will make passage difficult on Bexley. So if there's some proposal, some amendments that could be acknowledging the needs for traffic to be able to pass easily, I would be grateful. Thank you. Thank you. Hi, my name is Melagros Martyr, and I'm radio host producer also resident, and I did you wrote in Ross, in Dale, and I'm here to support Mr. Chavitz. That's from social will be very good for the community and strongly support him. Thank you. Okay, and Maureen. Hello. My name is Lori Radwin. I live at 49 Augustus, and you should have tens of letters in opposition from Rosendale Square business owners, employees and shoppers. The insufficient parking spaces in this building matter. There are not enough parking spaces in the squares described in a recent Boston Transportation Department, Rosendale Square Parking Study. The study explains that the streets around 4160 to 64 Washington Street could serve as parking for Rosendale Square small business customers. And along these lines in your letters, you'll see the small business owners, staff and customers describe a lack of parking as negatively affecting their ability for customers to shop and access services. And as you noted, in essence, if the proposed project is approved with its parking space violations, condominium orders with being competition with business customers for space, and this is hardly fair. The appellant can provide more spaces when the development is built and small business owners cannot create their own parking. Thank you very much. No additional. Madam chair, if I may. Yes. Just a point out I should have included this with my presentation, but along the X-Leo just for the board's consideration, where there is currently an extensive curb cut to allow for the double sort of garage doors for access and egress into the into the auto repair shop that that is going to be substantially replaced by a curb, which will allow for an additional two to three parking spaces in that area for the residents of the community. I think second of all, I think it's important to point out that this certainly is, I think by definition, a transit oriented development. I think it's a service by multiple bus lines from far sales points west in which less than a quarter of a mile from the Rossdale village, the real stop. We fully expect that the residents of this building aren't all going to own a vehicle. And then just as a sort of caveat, this, you know, especially in response to this to the last caller. No, Madam chair, you are as a resident of Rossdale, you know, the area well, you know, this, this is on sort of a very outskirts of the sort of main business district. I have personally gone to visit one at his building a dozen times. And I've actually never had any issues parking in that area. There's always been plenty of that in the square, very difficult during the day regular business hours. Absolutely. I've been here a couple of times a day out where one is towards Healeyfield and heading out towards far as hills and that I've never had an issue parking around one's building. So just, just for that's worth managing. I just think that in that specific section of sort of the outskirts of the business district. It's a little bit different than the main business area. Thank you. Miss Ambassador, we've got everybody as a Rossdale resident. I do feel that Mr. Chavez is heading in the right direction. However, I do think that it's still, it's still dense given the fact that it is proposed as three times the FAR that's required. And the height, I mean, the backstreet road is two and a half, maybe some three story, but mostly two and a half. And it's true that this proposal will eliminate the extra white coat cut. I'm a frequent visitor to that part of the neighborhood. It's true, but however, for distance from the corner that will not increase truly increase the number of spaces. And oftentimes, you know, with business districts with all these developments. The businesses get choked by the lack of parking because people then just throw up their hands and say that they will go to another business district or elsewhere, where they can do this. And the other thing I think that works against this project as proposed because I do think less densities possible is that the morning dedicated bus lane eliminates parking along that Washington street corridor, which just handicaps residents handicapped residents in the building. And I think that's a great way to make a mistake. Given that, I may have a miss if it's Cheryl, there is a conversation with the board. So if you could please hold. I'm going to put my name in. Because I do think that this is headed in the right direction, however, it is going to have a negative impact on the spot of Ross and Dell. Thank you, Paris. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, board members. Have a great day. Congress case for rediscussion, because BOA 1268636167 Maverick Street. This is directly new residential poor story building with 11 units, roofed acts and four rear parking spaces. The violation of the article 53 section 8, the uses for the bid and article 27 t-5. This is an e-spot and iPod. Article 32 section 4. This is G card applicability. Article 53 section 56. R street parking and loading. Article 53 section 52. Roof structure restrictions. Article 53 section 9. The additional order areas. Article 53 section 9. The floor area. She was excessive. Article 53 section 9. The bill has excessive and stories. Article 53 section 9. The bill has excessive and fee. Article 53 section 9. The use of open spaces. Interfiction. Article 53 section 9. The side yards. It's sufficient. Article 53 section 9. The ray. Yeah. It's insufficient. Namely address for the record, please. Thank you, Madam Chair. Members of the board attorney Jeff Trago with Trago and Tuscanyl with the business address of 11 Beacon Street. Here on behalf of the applicant and I also have Eric Zacherson from context design was the architect on the proposal in this rendering that you're looking now. It's the building proposed the very right of this block. The proposal is to raise the existing commercial structure and to erect a new building with 11 residential units and four parking spaces in the rear. This project will have an affordability component of a two bedroom unit on site. Our lot size is 4,500 square feet. This particular zoning sub district is a 3 F 2000. Just to go over since I see we are on the plans the layout in the basement. There will be some utility and utility room and a storage facility for the residents. The housing will begin on the first floor, which will have three units, two studios and one one bed. On the second floor that will house another three units, one studio, one one bed and one two bed units. The third floor will house the three additional units, one studio, one one bed and one two bed. And then we have a recessed fourth floor that is pulled in on the front seven foot two inches. I'm sorry, eight feet in the front and seven foot two inches in the rear. And that will house four, I'm sorry, two units, two two bed units, one with a front deck and one with a rear deck. On our roof, we have two exclusive roof decks just for units 10 and 11. Those will be accessed through hatch only. Just to go over the violations that were mentioned, this is a three F district, although it does have MFR all around it. We are proposing 11 units, so we use variants. We would need additional lot area variants. FAR were proposing 2.3, 1.0 is what's allowed. Our height is as proposed four stories at 44 feet six inches. What's allowed is three stories and 35 feet for open space. We have 836 square feet total, 300 square feet per unit is required. Front yard is five. We are models or zero matching the buildings to the left of us. Our rear yard were close at 26 feet seven inches and very slightly 22 feet 9 to 26 seven. And what's required is 30 parking is two per dwelling units. We do have four in the rear. Just to point it out, we are 500 feet walking distance to Maverick T station. I can answer any questions that the board may have. I have a question. Are you on? Good afternoon members of the board. Christian Seminelli, boss of Rowan, trust. We have both letters from the applicant. Yeah, those letters as well. Thank you. Councillor, what is the zoning sub district here? It is a three F 2000 lounge. Okay. And the lot size is what? 4,500 square feet. And you're still any proposing 11 units, right? We are 11 units, but that includes an affordable unit. Sorry, two bedroom unit and a contribution to the IDP fund. Okay. So this is. I would say that 369. It's four times, almost four times. The number of units that would be allowed as of right. On this. Because no, it actually for 3000 to 2000 square feet. No, it's actually almost three times. How would the plans, Mr. Robinson? Plans are good. I think we fully understand what's being proposed here in terms of its size and scale. I mean, it does have a setback at the fourth floor and the three stories more consistent with the mainstream. But it is up against the greenway bike path. So it doesn't have an abutting. So, it's just a little bit more. It's just a little bit more. However, it is encroaching in on, I think, on the right hand side. I just wanted to make sure. So sure. It looks like you're introducing a window. Well, adjacent to some existing windows on the adjacent building. But you don't have any windows in that window. Well, right. That's just a relief. But they're there. I think that's a great picture, Mr. Robinson, the rendering. I don't know you had mentioned just. As you had mentioned in context, if we go to the rendering, there was a four story building approved just to down from us. So we're in line exactly with the height of that building. Across the street from us is the greenway apartments with this four stories. And then behind us is the victory garden, which is four stories. So I do look in your right to the left of us is three, but two. I'm sorry. I can hear what you said. I'm so on the ZB. Yeah. No further question. What would I think about the point? Any other questions from the board? Can you speak to the. Yeah, I was thinking. I'm sincere right about it. Sorry, sorry. Uh, uh, uh, Miss Panada. Can everybody meet themselves? So that this board can understand what's going on? Uh, Miss Panada, please go ahead. Yes, I'm wondering about the landscape in plan given that we're abouting the East Boston Greenway and the bike paths. Sure. So what we did is we have net extensively. Um, to address park. Questions concerned as well as the greenway group. So we right next to us is a very large sloping hill and ray change the coast of the greenway. So we can't access that by foot. But what we have done is we hired for Dan or don't want landscape to put a full landscape plan together. And what they're going to do is. Because there's already landscape there, but to remove invasive invasive species and replace that with new sustainable species as well as making a large donation to redo as the greenway sees fit that whole landscape along the side. Um, we also because drainage along the greenway has been a major concern in the area. We have put together a recharge system that goes above and beyond what's even required from water and sewer. So help is this will significantly help with this recharge system with drainage along the greenway as well. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. And then the roof structure restrictions. Tell us about the roof deck. So we have two exclusive roof deck. roof decks, Madam Chair, one in the rear, one in the front. And so those are exclusive to those top units. One is 280 square feet. One is 425 square feet. And they're accessible only by hatch. Okay. And how will loading actually occur in this building? So the access point. So one of the unique things that none of the other buildings over here at this, we have easement rights in the back. And if we go down to the very last page of this presentation, there is an easement plan. It's 18 feet wide. And so it allows us to hit your access. So if something didn't eat, we do have our parking access that way. And so we have the right parking. And then we have the right parking. And that's what we're about to do. In terms of kickoff, you see that bottom sort of gray slash area. We do have the right to traverse down there. If we need to unload or load quickly, obviously. So we're going to get this. So let's see. I'm going to ask you a question from the board. Is anybody here? Bob, did you have a statement? Yes, Madam Chair and members of the board, Bob DeMaker, BTD. I'm just wondering if they could have a consideration for a mitigation for the Mary Ellen Welch greenway. And especially when you consider their proposal for the East Boston Health Center project. And I just was wondering about the size of the parking spaces. I can't make it out. Yeah, they are full spaces, Bob, in half by 20. And we did commit a monetary number directly with them. And I don't want to get into too much of the detail. But we do have an agreement with the greenway folks. Okay. Okay. Anything else? Okay. Is anybody here to speak and support our not position of this proposal? Morning, Madam Chair, members of the board of the Natalia of the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Service. The applicant receives support from the GOV Street Association. And many changes were made based on comments from the community. And the number of units from 20 to 11, five to four stories. And top floor has been pushed back if they are an increased human basis. The applicant also worked diligently with the greenway to design landscape connected with the project. Our office received 12 letters of support for this project. And at this time, our office would like to defer judgment to the board. Thank you. Madam Chair, second chair, we have those letters. The mayor's office spoke of. Okay. And I have to go to the few hands. I'll start with Janet. Can you say her name and address for the record? Yes. Good afternoon. My name is Janet not. And I live at 63 a Maverick Square in East Boston. My home is near the Mary Ellen Wells Greenway. And I would like to say that this is a beautiful space. And all of you that I have to see and also if you're going to vote for the positive, kind of be intimate to the Glenville Mill, to helpада, my Davis. Most of the community from November me. So to me, the enablement to cut. To offer his last 버�, The community that they speak in the garden, she's notั่ gagnje genway, nor Widis nightmare. I support this project because I think it will bring much needed housing to the neighborhood and I really like that it has an affordable aspect to it. Okay, thank you. And Vinnie, can you say to me when I just want to work with? Hi, there were now my name's Vinnie Plaro and I live at one 13 college street and I do support the project and appreciate the affordability aspect as well that they have grown in. Thank you. I have no any other way to answer. And just for clarification again, at what AMI is the affordable unit supposed to be at? 70% madam share. 70%? Yes. Okay. And it's one unit, right? Correct. Plus a payment to the IDP fund as well. Okay. Okay, so given that information, may I have a motion please? Motion or a motion approve of a BPD design review. Is there a second? A second there. All those in favor? Hi. Any opposed? Motion carries. Thank you. That's fair. Tom, the possible we can have the BPD A identify that the affordable units are going to design across us. Okay. And we put that in the decision. Yeah, that's a proposal or part of the BPD A. Like the things that I've never got. I thought that Jeff had already identified one, but I'll leave it up to him. I thought he identified in his two bedroom. It is, but yeah, it is. Okay. All right. Thank you. Following your next case, calling BOA 1237014157 West Springfield Street. This is a renovate and extend existing building and change the law from a church to nine dwelling units. The violation of Article 9 section, Section 001 reconstruction extension of an art conformer building. Article 32, Section 32, that for groundwater. This is in the G code. Article 64, Section 34 restricted room structure regulations. Article 64, Section 9, the floor de-arachio is excessive. Article 64, Section 9, use the law of the spaces and sufficient. Article 64, Section 9, the re-yod is insufficient. Amean address, further echo please. Madam Chairwoman, this is Eric Robinson. I'll be recusing myself from this case. Okay. So this is a six member board. So the applicant will need five members in support. And so you have two choices to go ahead or to recuse until or to defile until we have a full board. Madam Chair, for the applicant, George Moran, Sam and attorney with Davis, business address of 350 West Broadway in Feld Boston. And we choose to proceed with the six member board. Okay, excellent. So, and Mr. Oleg, you've had a chance to look at the plans. Oh yeah. Okay, so please go ahead, Mr. Moranze. Madam Chair, as a preliminary matter, there is a G code citation. I don't know if the chair wishes to take G code first. Yes, go ahead, Kristen. Madam Chair, I'm Mr. Oleg, Christian Seminelli, Boston, Rowan, and I trust that we have both letters from the applicant. Madam Chair, we have the letters as well. Thank you. Madam Chair, this is an application for the adaptive residential reuse of the building at 157 West Springfield Street, which was for over 130 years, home to the Ebenezer Baptist Church. The last service of the church was held in early 2020. Unfortunately, it's cost-im maintaining the aging structure grew over the years. And since now only about 20 percent of the congregants actually live in the neighborhood with limited, arching available in the area, a difficult decision to relocate was made by the church out of necessity. I have a very brief presentation on zoning. We have Michael Delafay from Rode Architects, who will actually present the architectural plans to break their deal of care and skill have gone into those plans that would not want to do a disservice by presenting them myself. Priority of church leadership was to go. So, Mr. Moranze, do you mind if we just flip this so that we can understand exactly what is being proposed, the unit size is a sector, and then we'd be happy to backtrack to your citation of what's proposed. Absolutely. I will allow Michael Delafay to proceed, and then when Michael is concluded that the board has any questions for him, if not, I will then do a presentation on zoning. Michael. Thank you, thank you, George. Michael Delafay, Rode Architects, 535 Albany Street Boston. I'm joined here with Reverend Thompson from the Ebenezer Baptist Church in case any of the board members have questions for him. We are proposing nine units, and they are as follows. Two one-bedroom flats at 650, and one of those units is a voluntary IDP unit. We have one one-bedroom flat at 800, we have two two-bedroom flats at 1500, and we have three three-bedroom duplexes at 1800 square feet, and then there's one three-bedroom triplex at 2500. I will also mention there's a little bit of inefficiency there due to staircases in the triplex. We're proposing nine parking spaces, one for each unit, and I'll take you through that in just a moment. Now then, that's where can you go to page three please, which is where we are. You'll see there on the right hand side, up on, there you go. You'll see on the right hand side, you'll see the nine parking spaces access through a small ramp on the right hand side, and then on the left hand plan, you'll see the first floor of residential in the lower, or sort of southeast corner of that plan. You'll see the residential lobby. This is at grade, and the lobby is here in order to provide candy count access to the building. On the right hand side, left hand side of that plan, you'll see three stucces, so our plan is to keep those three stucces completely intact, and this is for landmark reasons. We feel that it's important to maintain the validity of the existing structure. So on that plan, you'll also see that there is a two bedroom unit on the lower half of the plan that has access through a stoop, and it also has candy count access via centralized corridor. In the upper right hand, excuse me, upper left hand corner, northwest, there is another access to a unit. This is the triplex, so this will get through that person up and to their unit. In the center stoop is being utilized as a second entrance to the building, so any of the occupants within the building can come and go through that centralized stair in the main stoop. Madelow Vazor, can you go to the next page please? Here, these two plans illustrate the three duplex units and then the upper floor of the triplex. So the triplex is in the northwest corner, and that does have access to the street. You'll see that all four of the units here have bedroom levels that is below the brick within the existing church, and then up above the sort of e-line is what we're calling the public floor, so this is the living space, and we've done this to bring light and air into those particular aspects of the unit. So the sleeping floors are more quiet and within the church, and the more public aspects of each unit is up above the brick of the church, and you'll see a great deal of stairs within there as well, and they all have elevator access. Madelow Vazor, next page please. And then here you're seeing the final three units on the right plan, right hand side plan. You're seeing a one bedroom plus, and then another one bedroom, and then on the north side of the plan is a two bedroom, and these all have outdoor space as well. So terraces and some views within these dormers. Madelow Vazor, can you take us to page eight please? So let me just ask a quick question. Is everything being done within the envelope of the building, or is there any additions proposed or exterior modifications? The brick shell of the structure will remain, and the roof will be modified with a dormer like addition on both sides. Do we have a view of that proposed design? We absolutely do. Madelow Vazor, can you go to page 11 or 12? One of the two is fine. So this is the proposed addition. We are maintaining the existing rich height of the structure. We're not going to adopt that. And what we're proposing is basically pulling the roof up to form two large dormers that will house the units. And if you would have mind going to page 11, the one before this, this is another aspect of the design that we are going to touch on. So as you can see, we're completely revitalizing the existing brick structure. We're going to be repainting, and we're going to be restoring the front three doors. These will be turned into glass so that the occupants could actually have visibility to the outside and gain access to the units off of the street. This is really to bring awareness to the idea that people are kind of coming and going from here, that this is a residential building, which we feel is very important. The suits will be completely restored. And as you can see in the front, we've had preliminary discussions with the Boston Lamarx Commission. And they've really suggested that we take note of the existing, or the types of gardens that are within the south end. So that is what you see there in the front. And actually, Madam Ambassador, can you go to page 9? I'm going to go to page 9. Up one more. And then this is an example of that south end garden that is traditional in the area. So our expectation is to revitalize the gardens in front of the church and bring them up to the standards of the south end, along with restoring the suits. And then furthermore, we feel that it's important to in some way, memorialize the Ebenezer Baptist Church and the significant history that's happened here. And these are just some early ideas of what we... Okay, hold on, hold on. I understand one of our board members may need to leave early and given the fact that we have a six-member board. I'd like to move now to any questions from the board. Is anybody here to speak and support our in opposition? Madam Chair, do you want me to do the plans? Well, yes. How are the plans? The plans are very nice. They have done a very nice design combination of keeping the traditional elements and adding new elements. I have no issues whatsoever with the architectural design. The only concern is, as always, that this is nine units. Okay, Mr. Oliq, sorry to cut you off, but we are going to be losing a board member momentarily. And I just want to make sure that since we've gone through this whole process, we are a board member short that we have enough time to... Okay, but let me guess it's nine units, so... Okay, got it. Okay, sorry. Anybody else to speak either in support or in opposition? Yes, good afternoon, Madam Chair and members of the board. Kim Crucioli from Mayors Office of Neighborhood Services. The Mayors Office likes to defer to the board on this matter. The applicant has held numerous meetings on an off-site as well as in a butters meeting hosted by our office in October of 2021, and they've continued to communicate with the community since then. We've received seven letters of support, including one from the Harley Box Neighborhood Association and one letter of opposition from Chester's Foreign Members. Thank you. Madam Chair, we have those... Sorry, so go ahead. A Nick Borenstein from Rebson Diago's Office. Rebson Diago shared a letter of support and wants to express the support for the project today. Madam Chair, Secretary, we have those letters of Mayors spoke up and... Thank you. Okay, can we have a militia and Carol Blair? Can you guys speak? Entirely in a quandary because I do want to give a good due process, but okay, so let's see, let's just please everybody give us new information. Yes, so this is Carol Blair, to 22 Northampton Street, President of the Chester's Foreign Members. I'm here to report that many meetings with the developer team, the three issues are... There are three issues on resolve. First, we don't need more luxury housing, only a block away, Harriet Tumman House site is providing 66 units with the aid of parking, but workforce housing is the short supply and would be welcome. Second, this building has always been a meeting place, we've lost too many churches and spaces to gather including Tumman House. The new Ebenezer may be put bring people together, perhaps by hosting the Historical Exhibit, a community room, childcare or a flexible space for the Hurley's filing World Cade-Wake programs. The Ebenezer has always been a connector, the proposed design is a fortress. Here with the South End and Roxbury Meet on the margin of mass and cash, we need neighborly interactions. If the Ebenezer is to be residential, we need street side commies and goings, windows where people will look out and engaging open space. Third, we believe this proud building home to a church founded by former slaves should inspire Hurley's school students and all who pass by a plaque on a structure that has become a pedestal for penthouses is not adequate to convey the Ebenezer's history of African American activism. I also want to speak as chair for Ruby Coleman, a long time Ebenezer church member who lives next door. She was prepared to testify in December and February when the developer deferred but cannot do so today. Night before last, she was with her brother when he passed. Ebenezer church baptized Miss Ruby's children. They were there on Sundays and came from the Hurley after school. Miss Ruby told us the people who live there, they don't want to see us. They have their entrance way around the other side. As soon as they in there, they'll want to go on. With all this, we ask you to deny the appeal. Thank you for your attention. If I may speak, my name is Melita. I am one of the parents at the Hurley School. We have great concerns about the lack of community space as well. We also have great concerns about the construction that will take probably a long time and as you saw in that last photo on slide 12, our school is right next door. The film is right there. The film took a long time to get renovated and now it's dangerous and the children as well. Thank you. I would like to speak. My name is Brian Goki. Can you hear me? Yes, I can hear it. Yes, my name is Brian Goki. I'm co-president at the Hurley Block Tandayapurth Association. The Ebenezer Baptist Church, Reverend Thompson, has been a fixture in our neighborhood for more than a century. They've been wonderful neighbors. So please get to it. Tell us exactly. As far as the church leadership enthusiastically supports this proposal and so do I. I submitted a letter with 12 names of neighbors in support of this proposal. It's a diverse list of names from West Springfield Street, from Cremont Street, Worcester Street, and Chambot Avenue. I think it's a wonderful proposal and the church leadership supports it and so do we. Thank you. Thank you. Naomi? Hi, my name is Naomi Schlossberg. My husband and I live at 88 Western Street and our backyard front is the alley shared by the church at 157 West Springfield. We would like to voice our full support of the proposed redevelopment, especially given the understanding that the congregation in the church want to relocate and a key part of their relocation is selling this building at 157 West Springfield. The proposed conversion into condos would be a great thing, monetarily for the church and a great outcome for the neighborhood as we already have so few opportunities for additional housing. So we are full supporters. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, so no more, right, Mr. Ambassador? That's correct. I'm just popped up. You're right. Let's let Miss Abida please be fast. You know what, Mr. Ambassador? We just need to close all comments. Can I, Mr. Councillor, can you have any response to any of the comments that were made? Madam Chair, George Morancy, very quickly. I realize time is not an ally to us here. Mr. Rollitz comments initially about a nine unit project. Again, one of our reiterated theories of IDP unit. It is a, it is a 670 square foot one bedroom unit. It's been identified by the BPDA as unit two in the project in terms of violations. We've an affair of 2.3. I'm sorry, so it's the smallest unit essentially. No, no, no, no, there are three one bedrooms. They're all essentially the same. It's one of the three one bedrooms and it is the one on the lower floor, which is accessible. As to the restricted roof structure violations, not a high violation has to do with changing the profile of the roof. So hold on, Mr. Morancy. Mr. Ambassador, can everybody be muted? May I have the board have a discussion and then we can move to a motion? But you want to point out there's no use of open space violation. I think that's also important. Okay, Mr. Morancy, we're going to have to defer this if everybody doesn't keep quiet, okay? So may I have any conversation, any proposed motion? So in light of the fact that it's nine but with an IDP, which I think is key, I'd like to make a motion to approve of BPDA design with you. Mr. McGherald? Joe, I don't think we need to have it because it was nine marks. Yeah, sorry. So straight. Yeah, based on that same comment, I will second that motion. All those in favor? I, any opposed? I vote you here. I be at horrible units. I'm sorry. I'm sure, guys, he just the board of good to provide so that they have to identify the board with the, with the, with the proviso that it's unit number two as council specified. Okay, and motion carries. So you're all set. Good luck. Thank you, Ms. Pannato. We'll see you. I be here. Okay. Thank you. Going to the last case. Oh, going to the last case, calling the way. One two zero two five two nine, 55, both nav and you. This is a renovation of existing two family to a four family. One categorized along with a lot of space above, which will be a adjacent unit. The existing low unit, one duplex will be converted into two units. The violation of the 65 section eight dwelling unit located in the basement is the bit at equal 65 section eight. Forge dwelling unit use is in the zoning sub district. It's a bit at equal 65 section nine. The 48 ratio is excessive. I'm going to add that to the record please. My name is Timothy Shean. I'm the architect for the project. I'm representing Kathleen McPerson and Gabriella Jenkins and Kathleen's Hudson Matthew. So this is Ben through the board before. We've had a few deferrals. We've had to go back to ISD and redesign the project. So coming through now, what exists there now are it's a two unit building. It's a duplex over duplex. There are the bottom duplex currently has three bedrooms two are on the basement. One's upstairs and then the upper unit is just four bedrooms now. So let's back what is the zoning district? This is it's two families six thousand. Two families six thousand and what is the lock area on this? It's 9600 square feet. 9600 square feet and a you're still proposing four families. Yes. And you're still proposing the garage with loft space? Yes, so the garage yeah it's going to be its own unit now. There'd be a garage with living space under it and living floor above it. And tell us about the basement unit in the the basement unit? Yeah, the existing basement unit. It's a full walk out at the back on the salt side. We're increasing the window areas so light and air requirements will be doubled. Sills are at 30 inches. One of the bedrooms downstairs will be eliminated and turned into a living room. We'll put us at our French doors in and make a window on the west side bigger. So in that unit will be 677 square feet over the 610 the BPD Alex to see. What neighborhood is this and this is in Dorchester? Yeah it's a boat and out. Yes it's just about it's about 30 feet above Washington Street. Just one block out. I think I got to understand why we need a basement unit. Well what's going on are these are owner archipiers. So the three bedroom unit is hard to rent and I looked at it. It's it's just a perfect basement. I know you don't like basement apartments but it fully exposes on the backside. We've got plenty of southwest light. We've got good ceiling height at 711. It's just a basement because the way it sits in the hill the front edge of it is buried. So you know we looked at it and it just makes more sense. It's easier for the rent. The people on the unit wanting you to commonly going to work together on this and this is the rest of their lives you know this is the rest of their life house. So it makes it makes it possible to do the rest of the renovations by adding these two you know they're basically adding the two units. One unit being the addition on the left and the other one being converting the existing basement duplex into two separate viable units. You know what 677 square feet with a full southern walk out exposed and then the middle you know the ground floor entry. You know the first floor entry will be you know a nice 870 square foot two bedroom unit. It just works better for for my clients. And tell us about the addition. What's the addition? The addition is off the left side. It's 28 feet long by 19 feet four inches wide. It's two stories high from the front and if you look at the elevations you know you look at the elevations. I've been very careful about maintaining that Victorian style of the building and having the additions subservient to the main house. And that would be for you know for the person who's in unit two now who's on it's gay that would be his unit. And that's it you know that's it's I you know I think it looks pretty good I think it works with the architecture that's there and we've kept it as minimal as possible it's only three floors because of the way the building the way the site drops off down going towards Washington Street. And house parking walking because I noticed that's not a violation. Yeah I've got it right here. Basically right we have there right now is a asphalt driveway with one car so and the curb cutters over what the curb cuts 14 feet plus. So my thought was to expand the driveway in the front and along with a spot in the garage we'll have three spaces. Okay so we provided for the two addition units and truthfully there these clients and they're all together so they'll make it work. No it's it's one group of people. How are the plans Mr. Robinson? Plans are good. I can't disagree. The site does fall off. The lower level unit is decent it's not I don't think it's even a stretch I think it does seem to sort of provide the space. I you know I have a little bit of the heartache of going from two to four but I think in terms of the overall proposal it's it's scaled pretty nicely I don't think it's encroaching too closely on the adjacent left hand I think it's left hand neighbor a 10 foot six setback so other than that I think it's it's it's it's it's a fair proposal I think from this site so I agree with the site. Any other questions on the board? Yeah there's some basement floor plan or the bedroom situated towards the rear walk out or where how are they? Yeah they're right on the rear walk out so I mean the bedroom you'd have to you know yeah yeah it's just they're on the south west side which is the bed. Okay so they have plenty of light. Yes it's it's pretty good. Oh is it shattered by the decks? It's it's yeah it is under the deck with the decks you know the way that deck is it's up nine feet you know it's up nine feet off that ground level just the way it worked because of the high floor to ceiling so they'll get some light yeah it's not perfect sunlight but they'll get light. Okay is anybody here to speak either in support or an opposition of this proposal? I'd like to know Madam Chair members of the board Denise DeSansos from the mayor's office the neighborhood service I would like to go on record and state that the applicant has met with via butters twice in the association a few different times to present this and they have the butters and neighborhood association support at this time we would like to defer to the board thank you. Madam Chair I have no additional way of standing. May I have a motion please? Madam Chair? Madam Chair? Madam Chair? Yes, hi. Joe McGeckron City Council Frank Baker's office we're actually in opposition to this project due to the fact that many of the butters contacted us and they think the project is too dense. They have huh okay. I'm wondering if did because I haven't seen very many comments to us from the aboutters on this project okay got okay anybody else? Sorry about that. May I have a motion please? I'll make a motion to approve with the VA design review. I'll second that motion Eric. All those in favor? Aye. Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries okay the meeting is now technically adjourned but if board members could stay on for a minute that would be fantastic. Thank you for your time everybody. Good luck. Good luck thank you. Thank you.