 The Board of Appeals for Tuesday, December 13th is now in session. Just a reminder, please make sure your cell phones are off and in conformance with the open meeting law and letting you know that this meeting is being live streamed. Also when we receive recommendations from the community and the Boston redevelopment Authority, I guess the Boston Planning and Development Agency, we take those recommendations under advisement. We make our decisions based on the testimony that is presented and we request that each one of you give us new information rather than repeating what somebody else prior to you had said. With that, it's the fortune. Good morning, I'm going to call the first cases of the day for the extension, calling BCC 30890316 Main Street. Wait a minute, sir. Wait a minute, sir. We have a front. Name an address for the record, please. Robert Godfrey. And that's a 316 Main Street in Charlottesown, Mass. So what are you requesting? Well, we're requesting that we're trying to have somebody come back to... You can sit down. Take care of the building inspection report. We had a gentleman come all over Mr. Chris Baratheck, but he wasn't sure as far as what he was supposed to do because we're working with the Department of Education. So they gave us the form that they requested that he needs to be filled out. So let me just get this straight. This project was before this board and you're asking for an extension of time for how long I you're requesting it for. Like, say two months. Okay, so let's make a motion for extension for six months. Six months. Second. All those in favor? Hi. Any opposed? So you're all set for six months, okay? Let's do some leeway. Calling in the next four cases. BCC-3297-15-Mallet Avenue. BCC-3299-898. 14 New England Avenue. BCC-3299-18-20. New England Avenue. And BCC-33-00000-17-Mallet Avenue. Name and address for the record please. Yes. Good morning. Madam Chair, members of the board. I'm Lloyd Joseph Feaster from the law firm of McKenzie and Associates 183 State Street, Boston 02109. I have with me, um, um, Walmart, Hermesign, who is from Codman Square, Project Director over at Codman Square at NBC, and Bob Wiggler from the narrow gate who is the architect on the project. Mr. Bees, what are you requesting? An extension for how long? Yes, it makes, well, I'll take as long as the board will give me. I take five years, but I know you only give me one. But in any event, the issue here is that my client has, as they have done on most of the matters that have come before this board, have our projects that are affordable housing. And as you know, the city has the way in which it lines up the affordable housing projects for different funding and financing. And they are looking at, they have not been able to be selected for some of the earlier rounds since the project was approved by this board, but they are looking to be in position for the round is coming up in February. So we're here. So the space round. Yes. So we're at least looking at Madam Chair for a year. But hopefully that, within that time frame, they will be successful in getting the financing that they need. I'll make a motion for one year extension. Second hand. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Thank you for your presentation. Thank you, Mary Christmas, everyone. D32943531 E Second Street. Name and address of the record, please. Madam Chair, members of the board, Madam is George Morancy. I'm an attorney with the business address of 350 West Broadway in South Boston. Madam Chair, members, this is a matter that was approved by this board on October 8, 2013. The relief will be expiring in early January. It was an approved application for a five-story seven unit dwelling building. Background for us to why I'm requesting this extension is that the owner of the property is Frank Sorrenty, who is also my client for an article 80 small project on today's agenda coincidentally for 17 unit project at 482 484 West Broadway in South Boston, which is the home of Perkins Supply, my clients plumbing supply company. 531, he's second as a property is a warehouse, storage warehouse for his plumbing supply business. He's had to keep the storage use at 531, he's second street active while he has maintained his business on West Broadway. Not, uh, uh, prognosticating what this board is going to do today, but we're the 482 West Broadway project approved. Uh, that my client will be able to proceed with the development of both parcels. Uh, therefore, I think it makes the most amount of sense, certainly, for my client standpoint to request a one-year extension on this. Did this come before us for an extension previously? No. So that's been three years since the poem is still valid? The hearing day was October of 2013. The decision was entered in January of 2014, and with the afore expire in January of 2000. Uh, I, I've misstated this. It's the, the, it would expire in 2000, January of 2016. So I was, uh, almost 12 months ago. I'm sorry, 2017. I'm sorry. Okay. Okay. Just as we clear. Okay. May I have a motion for one-year extension? We'll make a motion for one-year extension. I'll second that. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries are all set. Thank you. Calling BCC-329-03188-High Street. Name and address for the record, please. My name is Fred Manix. My address is 188. Last week. It's last month. Mr. Manix, what are you requesting? We're requesting a one-year extension, uh, Manix, you own. Uh, this matter is, uh, title matter. It's, uh, now in Land Court, and we expect to be, uh, heard sometime in August, September of this year. Uh, sorry. And when was this heard before us? When was this before us? This was before us, uh, before you, and we had an extent, one-year extension already on this matter. Okay. So, uh, is this a small little building? Yeah, it's a small building. We have a smaller, an easement problem, which we think we can solve, but it's taken a little bit longer. Okay. Here have a motion, please. Make a motion for one-year extension. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? You're all set for one-year. Thank you. Calling board final, obiter, calling B-O-A-4-4-3-524-20-22 Hane Street. Is Hane Street here? Okay. Name and address for the record, please. Philip Resko, architect, uh, 36-Bromfield Street, Boston. So, please tell us why you're here with the board final, obiter? The, uh, the board has approved two different parcels here, and actually before there was, site is 20-22, was approved in 1984. I have those dates and times, and that's submitted in the letter that I wrote. Um, and what happened then, it was an existing building, and my client wanted to legalize, um, a, uh, what were two two families that had been combined, um, across party walls. So, that was done as an existing building. That's 20-22. So, the other building that's known as 1416, it's a brand new building that was submitted, and we do not need board of final arbiter on that building. Okay. On that decision. The final arbiter decision for 20-22 is that in the process of getting a building permit, the floodplain was changed. There was a three-foot, um, raise in elevation, which eliminated, um, apartments that were on a lower level in a partial, in a basement that was part way underground. So, that eliminated that unit at that point, and all our mechanicals and other things were at that area. So, the solution was to raise our floor above the floodplain and make a mezzanine within our new first floor. So, did that change the height of the building or anything? Um, and does, and does, do we have the updated plans? We have a drawing, yes. Okay. And, uh, only, I would say slightly, the height is not changed particularly. Uh, the volume, uh, the roof, that had been a flat roof that had sloped slightly to the rear, uh, away from the street. That was made flat in order to accommodate the heights. So, you're here for board final arbiter to change, to change what? We've filed under an ALT and the ALT, um, it's going to be an ERT. It's going to be an ERT. Okay. And, uh, inspectional services department, uh, has recommended a takedown of the existing structure because in the process of trying to, um, improve the condition of an existing substructure, that is, uh, not in good repair. They've requested that we do a takedown and that's what we're proposing. May I have a motion to that effect to approve the board final arbiter changing it from an ALT to an ERT? So, move. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries are all set. Thank you. Are there any, we're going to call the 930 cases of... I'm just going to spoke for one minute, just give me a proof of minutes. Sure. We're going to go back to the, uh, approval of the hearing minutes of December 6th of 2016. Motion to approve. Sir, second. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? The minute meeting for December 6th has been approved. Are there any deferrals or withdrawals for 930? Address for that, fine. 2.96, the fauna. Full of record calling, B-O-A-5-8-5-226-296, the fauna to the avenue. Name and address for the record, please. Morning, my name is my fauna, a 204 adips fee, dork, just a mass 02122. What are you requesting? Well, we want to receive it in associations and they have requested for one more neighbor, neighbor who's a neighbor and a flooded median. Okay, this is a request for a rear addition to an existing two family. That's correct. Okay, and when are you scheduled? We don't have a schedule yet because the holiday coming, holidays is coming up. And just found that it can be able to go back to March sometimes. I'm sorry? March. To March? Yes, we will. How big is this addition? Only 20 by 19. And is it one story or two story? Two and a half story. It's two and a half story, rear addition. And they're requesting that you wait until March for the agreement. No, I'm not asking you that can I go back in March because it's just kind of make sure that we will go to... That's to give you insurance that the community will make. Okay, may I have a motion, please? A motion for deferral. Second. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? The date, please. You'll have a date of March 14th. Okay, you're all set. March 14th and we'll see you next year. I also have another project at 11.30. I feel like you can not hear that until 11.30. Thank you. Thank you. Are there any other cases? Mark. I have a motion for the committee. Thank you. Thank you. Address. 32, but the road street. For the record calling, BOA 634, 407, 32, button, road street. Name an address for the record, please. Mark LeCAS, 75 Arlington Street, Boston, Mass. Attorney for the owner and developer of this project. We are meeting with the Columbia Seven Hill Civic Association Planning Committee tonight. And then expect to be on their general membership meeting agenda in January. We'll wait until we complete that process. May I have a motion for the. Make a motion for the furl. Second. All those in favor? All right. Any opposed? The date, please. You'll have a date of January 24th. Perfect. Thank you so much. Are there any other furls or withdrawals for 9.30? Eric Namikaw, the first two cases calling BOA 646, 788, 167-183, Chestnut Hill Avenue. This is for 167-183. This is a change of action. It includes a pet center, a gathering place that holds cats overnight and does not prepare, serve, or sell food. The evaluation of the article is 51, section 16. Use of a cat kennel is forbidden. So this is for 167-183 Chestnut Hill Avenue. At 181, including 171 from proposed tenant Gyro City, changed oxygen from retail to restaurant with 37 with cafe seating on corner sidewalk. The violation of the article 51, section 16. Restaurant is a conditional use in a local convenience sub district. Amonette, Ms. Friller, I could please. Mr. Secretary, if you don't mind one at a time. It's different appellance that would be okay with the board. Okay, one is for a restaurant. It's a different use. We'll do the cat cafe. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. Attorney Nick Zazula, McDermott, Quilty and Miller, 28 state streets. Sweet 802 here in Boston. With me to my left is Diane Kelly, who is the owner and operator of PER, cat cafe ink. We're here before you today with what we think is a very cool and unique opportunity in proposal here in the city of Boston to open Boston's first cat cafe. We've provided you with a handout regarding this proposal. Give you a little bit of a background on what actually a cat cafe is. In part in my joke, but we do think this is the perfect location for it. Look, there's more of those if you like located in Brighton. Located in Brighton, just north of Comaab, near Boston College. It's also within a short walking distance of several MBTA stops on the green line. Big of it kind of like a cat sharing service. Everything nowadays is by the hour and not having the responsibility of the upkeep of things. This is the ability for to change the occupancy to allow for cats to be held overnight for patrons and customers to come during normal business hours to pay a fee, to play with the cats, to engage with the cats. And to interact with them on an hourly basis. And so there's no preparation service or sale of food. Yes, ma'am. For the visitors. Correct. And so what is the exact address on this? Because the other one is for 181. Yes. What is the exact address? So there was a little bit of an issue with that. I know when we didn't take with inspecional services. There are three spaces at this property. Three commercial spaces. Per would be taking one of the three, whereas, which is, I believe, 183. Whereas the, I'm sorry, 167. Whereas the following case and companion case, they would be taking the other adjacent two spaces. This would be one of the three spaces. It's about 1,500 square feet. And what are the hours of service? So the hours would be approximately 10, 10, 10, 10, 10 to 11. On weekends, during the week, probably only 29 o'clock. Just sat at the bottom. Excuse me, probably sat at the week, 11 to 11. Okay. And you have proper disposal mechanisms in place for litter and things like that? Yes, ma'am. We're working with the landlord is going to have a private trash pickup twice a week to do that. Also have this is a cat cafe deal with this. This is one of over 100. There are about 100 in the country as of this point. I don't know why Boston is so far behind in the cat cafe curve. But there she's following the standards. There's a kitty litter that she's odor neutralizing. She's going to have a ventin filtration system on the roof to help with some of the odors and the noise as well. I have the plans, Mr. Arleick. Oh, plans for other questions. Any questions from the board? This is right around the corner from where I live. I'm so glad that this space is being occupied finally after a big fire. So people will pay on an hourly basis to. Yeah, so it would be like just any reservation. You reserve 30 minutes to an hour. There's an occupancy level for the building. There's how many people will be there, how many cats, staff, and things of that nature. But you would walk in there, welcome. But there will be a website where you can just book like anything else you book you go on and say I'm going to be there at 10. I want to be there for an hour. You pay online. A set fee. And you come in and you play with the cats for an hour. There will be free Wi-Fi and things like that as well which will help. You know, make it a place that people want to come hang out and stay. Okay. Yes. One question. I don't know whether you answered it before. There is no food service at all. No food will be served sold or prepared on site. No coffee or... No coffee or... Not served or prepared of sold on site. No. Is anybody here to speak on behalf of the project? Madam Chair, members of the Board, Mariner Alley, Mayor's Office of Naval and Services. I have to complete the public process. Brighton also, an improvement association civic group, where we're in full support. And the local of butter is a full support. So I can speak. We can go in full support at this point. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the Board. Daniel Follon, on behalf of Councillor Marxio, more like the going record and support as well. Thank you. Is anybody here in opposition? Are you in support? Well, I'm... I'm going to clarify. I'm actually... My name is Chris Manadis-Lornell. I'm a butter. 150-164. Chestnut Hill Avenue across the road. We're generally very happy to see these people. We see these spaces being filled with such innovative uses. But we would like to just raise the concern of parking on-site. We have the property... Our property is across the street. Parking is very tight in this neighborhood. This is an extended duration type use. And we just like to make sure that that concern is addressed on the parking front. Thank you. I can respond that if you'd like. Is anybody here to speak in opposition? Yes, please respond. Nick? Oh, I'm sorry. I thought there was so many... No, no, no, no. I apologize. So we were not cited for parking. This is a commercial use. It was a fire back in 2012, which devastated the building. Historically, there's never been parking here. It is located within steps within a short walking distance of several MBTA stops. I think we're thinking that a lot of the customers will be from a Boston college or from a local area where they will be walking in within short walking distance in the neighborhood. There is parking on the street nearby all along Chestnut Hill ab as well. And we weren't cited for it. How many cats will you have on the premises that they can give you time? So the cat occupancy, if you can believe that's a thing, is approximately... It's 30. But the idea would be to have approximately 15 to 20 at any given time. Also, in the downstairs level, there's a lot of people who are in the neighborhood. Downstairs level, there's a kind of a quarantine room where if cats are spooked or they need to... If Miss Kelly needs them to staff, they need to bring the cats. There's room down there as well. But it's furry. It's what the occupancy would be. Do you have a quick thing for you? You talk about not serving food, coffee, whatever. Is that considered... Do you look at that as a problem? Are you getting that food in a neighborhood or...? No, it wasn't looked at as an issue. I think Miss Kelly has already met with the Board of Health and IST and talked about those concerns that has all been discussed for this. There's a plan in place. There'll be ample staff and to take care of that issue. But no, that wasn't really a concern that was raised at a high level at the butter meeting. And neither, frankly, neither was the parking. Wasn't really brought up either. Please. Motion to approve. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? And this building has been cleaned up. There are no grates or anything on it. It is ready for a build-up. We're just waiting for this hearing. It's fully ready to go. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Is that for the curve guys though? No, it wasn't the only one. I will call the next case. Call it BOA 645 268 167 183. Just a little avenue. This is at a 181, including 171 for proposed tenant, gyro city, change object from retail to restaurant with 37 with cafe seating and corner sidewalk. Violation of the Article 51, Section 16. Restaurant is a conditional used in the local convenience subdued. Name and address for the record, please. We're in Secretary Madam Chair, members of the board. Attorney Joe Hanley, McDermott Quiltum Miller, 28th State Street in Boston. No puns, please. Congratulations. Congratulations. Congratulations on making new law here in the city of Boston. We are here to complete this application before you would essentially complete the restoration of this building, which as you heard earlier was devastated by a fire in 2010. It's been vacant since 2012. With me is Paul Christopher, who with his mother, Penny Christopher, who's here owns the gyro city concept, which is a Greek restaurant full service with takeout that's looking to go into two of the three spaces. These are the two storefronts that will be combined that are remaining to fill up on the space. Also with me is Paul Robert Aguala, who is the architect on the floor plans that you see. Just basically, this is a conditional use for a restaurant use consistent with not just the site, but also the neighborhood. This property prior to the fire had three different restaurant operations. This is a restaurant that has been built in Boston and has the pizza back in the day. So we're basically going back to that which this building has accommodated. There are existing systems in place that will be reutilized. This is restaurants with 30- how many seats? Approximately 40 as well as some seats. Outdoor seating along the three tables, which is probably like 12 seats. Is this going to be on the side? On the side. On the side. On the private property. How are the plans Mr. Arlic? I actually only have a set of plans for the tap tap. I have one for Palantino. I have another set here. In the meantime, is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? I also have. Sorry. Madam Chair, members of the Board, Warner Riley. There's Office of Neighborhood Services after completing the public process. The Brighton Olsen Improvement Association Civic Group are in full support. And the local butters are in full support. And the BAA wanted to say they're excited about a family owned and operated business. So you can go in favor of full support. Thank you. Morning, Madam Chair, members of the Board. Daniel Polanco, we have Councillor Marxio. I'd like to go on record in support as well. Thank you. Is anybody here in opposition? Same comment. Okay. There's no parking on-site. In 40 seats, that's a sit-down restaurant. It's not take out. I have a hard time understanding where people, you know, parking is already constrained in the neighborhood. Thank you. And just for clarification, this is for restaurants or is it for restaurant but takeout? This is a restaurant and has an incidental takeout. So you'll see, which is again, similar to what three uses had prior to that. So the new interpretation from ISD is 70% of the business is the trigger for a takeout restaurant and will be under that. And just to give you some background quickly to support the conditional use and address the comment made here in parking. This concept, this would be the second location in Boston. They also have one on Peterborough Street in the Fenway, which was a building that was also subject to a fire and they came in and helped to restore the occupancy. So they're very aware of how to operate this exact type of restaurant. Which is sit down, they'll be seeking a beer and wine license, which ISD is also considered to be a akin to more of a full service. They will have a takeout but it will be less than 25%. And they are have experience managing this concept in neighborhoods that have traffic concession and there's also no parking at Peterborough Street. And so did you find the plans and how are the plans? The plans are on the purpose. May I have a motion please? I think you can go through, again I'm happy to see the motion. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. We're all set. Good luck. Thank you. Probably BOA 624101-15 to 17. Arboros. Arbor road. This is a change. I'm a two family to a three family for existing conditions in 1927. The violation is Article 67 Section 8. A three family dwelling unit uses and forbidden use. Article 67 Section 9 opens spaces in sufficient. Article 67 Section 9.1. Intufficient additional lottery area for a dwelling unit. Article 67 Section 32. Additional parking required and unis proposed. Article 67 Section 9. A loud number of stories has been exceeded. Article 67 Section 9, Florida Eratio is excessive. And Article 67 Section 9. It's sufficient. Side yard setback, dormer is in the front. Name and address for the record please. Russell Fosberg, 19.5. You have a new avenue having to in Massachusetts. My name is Dennis Patch. Six years road in Rosendale. Please tell us by what this proposal is. Yes. Mims of the board. Again Russell Fosberg alone with the property on Dennis Patch. Our purpose has two folds. First is the legalization of the property is a three family dwelling. And then the creation of dormers to afford additional ceiling space for the existing structure. And speaking to the issue of the legalization of occupancy, the building was built in 1925 as a two family dwelling. As the pictures which have been provided to the board will indicate all three floors were finished identically from the beginning. Mr. Patch acquired the property approximately one year ago from the German who had owned it from the early 60s. Throughout this entire course of his occupancy, the building has been utilized for the purposes of a three family dwelling. Assessing records indicate as far back as we can find to 1962 some 54 years ago, that is how the city has been viewing the property. The reason Mr. Patch is interested in this property is two fold. He owns a small business and has lived in Rosendale for the past six years. Additionally, his family who has lived on a borough row and continue to do so for the past 22 years. In legitimizing this property as the three family dwelling, there would be virtually no impact to the area or to a but as much as this property we believe actually has been utilized in this fashion for actually longer than that period. Can you please address the dormer issue because what is the square footage of that unit that is currently there and what is the proposed square footage with the dormer? As the boy can see from this particular plant here, the footprint of the building does not get expanded by virtue of the dormer. The square footage remains identical to just the useful square footage. Right now you are talking about areas that have silenettes on the order of somewhere about five feet as opposed to what would be a seven foot three silenettes. They are raising it basically by two and a half feet to gain usefulness of the space, not actually additional square footage within the square footage. So, you are popping up the roof and they are going to be fixing the stairwell and everything so that you can go. Exactly, yes, that is correct. How are the plans Mr. Erlin? Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Is anybody here in opposition? Hold on, hold on. Representatives from the elected officials and then the neighborhood residents please line up behind. Madam Chair, members of the board, John Allison Mayors Office of Neighborhood Services on behalf of Daniel Murphy. There was in a butters meeting on this, many of the butters were opposed. This would be the first three family in the neighborhood which could set a precedent and additionally our offices received many letters of opposition. Thank you. Madam Chair, if I could... I will read. No, I need your name and address on the record and I need you to summarize. Okay. You can put the letter into the record but please summarize your concern. Name Keon Salajge and Mandana Moschragi 10-12 Arboru Road. Our property is on the opposite side of this property. We are opposing this because it's a dead end street. There are no legal three families on the street and what this gentleman just stated is a false claim. The three units are not identical. I want... From the city, someone inspector to come and see that the third floor unit does not have the identical footprint of the second or the lower one. And I will submit. Please give it to the lady at the desk. Thank you. Your name and address please. Andrew Mousielo 11-Aboru Road, Rosalindale. And I just want to voice my opposition again to the change of the zoning for this neighborhood. I have lived in the neighborhood for seventy-foules, seventy-three years. And I just don't believe that this... It should be a change in the zoning. They're all one and two family homes. It's a dead end street with very limited packing only on one side of the street. And again, I had sent an email to Mr. Murphy and met him at the last meeting and I just want to again share my opposition. Thank you. Anybody else to speak in opposition? Mr. Forgeberg or response? Thank you very much, Chairman. I'd like to point out this is an area map, the blue property being the subject property. The other properties here in yellow and orange are listed currently as three families are going to the assessing department for the city of Boston. But just an Aboru Road. Yes, just an Aboru Road. We have one, two, three, four, five, six properties that immediately but the subject property which are in fact listed on the assessing records as three families. Moreover, I would also like to indicate that we have provided the board with a letter of non-opposition from the local neighborhood association, the Longfellow neighborhood association, and twenty-two letters of support of this proposal from area residents and abouters. Okay. And so please backtrack that third unit currently, what's the square footage of that? The square footage. The current square footage and the floor just ceiling height. Well, again, to the earlier speakers comments. No, I just want facts. I don't want to respond to anything. No, okay. Well, the square footage doesn't change but the current square footage will be identical to the proposed square footage, which is 80... I'm sorry, I'm just trying to add up the... No, just give us a... I'm going to say somewhere in the order of around 800 square feet. 800 square feet and the floor to ceiling height currently. The floor ceiling height in most of the area is on the order of seven-three, I'm going to say. And then there's some towards the eaves of the building which tripped down to about five foot thereabouts. Okay, given the information, they have a motion, please. Motion for denial. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? The request has been denied. Thank you. Calling BOA 648168264 and upon to Valley Parkway. This is to change oxygen from a gas station to a gas station and retail store. Build an addition onto the existing gas station for inspections and convert one existing service bay into a retail space. Violation, Article 69, Section 8. Use a retail store as forbidden. Article 69, Section 9. Radio out as insufficient. Article 9, Section 1. Extension of an 19 forming youth. Name and address for the record, please. Attorney John Paul, Jeannie, 10-4, its road, brain-tree mass. With me is Jason Mossad, who's the owner of the gas station along with his engineer, Al Shabab. Please, please. What's being proposed? This gas station is a pre-existing nonconforming. Violations all are extension and nonconforming youths. This has been a gas station since 1927. However, zoning now is 1F6000. What Mr. Mossad is looking to do is own the property for approximately 2.5 years. The state has a requirement of updating the tanks. He's in the process of doing that. Along with that, he'd like to remodel the gas station as well as expand it. He has a small, what you would call, I guess, a campaign you can go in and get. Soldiers and snacks and things like that. He's going to use one of the existing bays, expanding the retail into that bay. More of a mobile on the run, maybe you can fill in with that. Then add a bay for inspection. Adding one bay, which is approximately 480 square feet. We've had, went through the neighborhood process, had an abutus meeting. No objections to the buddhist meeting. Everybody's happy with it. We also went through the reveal neighborhood watch for the community meeting. And again, no questions. Everybody was fine with the project. How are the plans? Is there a... What are the other... Any questions from the board? Yes, what's the time frame if it is approved for the retail? Is it open 24 hours? Is it closed? I know it's a residential neighborhood as well. It's a good question. It's the same hours we have today. And what is today? The six to 11. Thank you. All may except the week. Yes, ma'am. I have a question. On the right hand side of this plan, buffering the neighborhood with the apartments, we're showing a fence here. Is that a new fence that you guys are going to add along there? Yes, so that area, there's a fence. This is a dilapidated fence. If any of you guys are familiar with that area, behind that is the Guarantees' apartments, which is a pretty mammoth problem complex. So that whole area is going to be done. The tanks will be redone. The parking lot is going to be redone. And if you look at this gas station, it looks something that was built in the 50s. It's bright, it doesn't match. So it'll be like what you see on Route 128 with the blue cap, clavboard, hardy plank, siding, you know, and me to make it more inviting. And basically more aesthetic and pleasing for the neighborhood. Just inspection, no repairs. Light appears. Light will be two bays. One bays will be for the inspection. And the second bays, the existing bays, will be for the big one of the bays. That becomes part of the story. And will the canopy be repaired too? Everything? It's complete rehab? Yes. Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Morning Madam Chairman, this is the boy, David Healthy Mayor's Office, named with services. As they said, they went through a community process. No objections were raised from the neighborhood. It's a reasonable extension of the existing uses there, it would be recorded in support. Good morning Madam Chair, members of the board, WallTrap White, Councillor Tim McConnor, these office, we'd also like to go on record that support. Morning Madam Chair, members of the board, Gary Webster, on behalf of City Council President Michelle Wu, we'd like to go on record to support. Madam Chair, members of the board, Paul Sullivan, we have some contacts out there. Michael Plarrie, Council to go on record support. Thank you. Is anybody here to speak in opposition? May I have a motion please? Motion to approve with screening and buffering from... May we have a significant design review on the screening and buffering for the entire property? Is there a second? All those in favor? Hi, hi. Any opposed? Motion carries with that proviso. Thank you very much. Calling BOA 652-473-655-Astron Street. This is demo existing single family dwelling in Rect A New, two family with parking and garage at grade. Violated Article 65 Section 8, two families for Bidden, Article 65 Section 9, Front Yad is in sufficient, Article 65 Section 9, Floody Aratio is excessive, and Article 65 Section 9, Rhea Yad is in sufficient. Name and address for the record please. Good morning Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is James Christopher of RCA LLC with a project architects, the business address of 415-aponzed app. I'm joined by the property owner, John Lynch. Please tell us what's being proposed. So currently on the site there's an existing single family home, which is in a little bit of stress. The foundation is cracking. It's on a septic system. Mr. Lynch owns the property and we proposing to raise the existing structure and build a new two family residents with two interior parking spaces per unit. With two levels of living above and three bedrooms, three baths. We had an abourers meeting, the project was supported. We also have a letter of support from the Clamp Point Civic Association. To tell us about that parking, other garages facing the street are they on the side? They're facing the street ban, Chair. Is there any other option because we're seeing more of these, but all over the city versus in the past, where it used to be concentrated in certain places? I'm not sure with the psych and strands on the sides of the footprint of the building that we would be able to have the maneuverability to access the garages from the side or the rear. Right now with the sighting of the building and the footprint, we have nice open space all the way around the building, which would be green space and planting. And if we were to add a driveway to try to bring the vehicles to the back of the building, we would lose that, essentially all the open space would be end up having to be paved. So it looks like there are, I see there's a planting bed on that side and an asphalt right one on one side. Okay, how are the plans Mr. Erwin? Draw each round of it. And this is the last building on the road. It is. Any questions from the board? Anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Morning Madam Chair and members of the board. My name is David Cotta from the Mayor's Office of the Neighborhood Services. We'd like to go on record and support. We held in a butter's meeting that went well. All of the butters and attendance expressed their support for the project. Mr. Lynch also has the support of the Clamp Point Civic Association. Thank you very much. Madam Chair and members of the board, Joe McGatrin, City Council and Frank Baker's office, relates to our record and support. Thank you. So anybody here in our position? May I have a motion please? Motion to approve. With BRA, the design review. Second. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries or all set? Thank you for your time. Thank you. Following B08642, 6933 Milstreet. This is a new one story addition to the rear of the building, the unit D with roof deck, an extension of living space to the basement. Violation of the article 9 section 1. Proposed addition would create an extension of an existing non-conforming use. Article 65 section 9. The addition would worsen the existing excessive FAR. Article 65 section 9. The addition would worsen the existing insufficient usable open space. And Article 65 section 9. The stairway leading down from the roof deck onto the proposed addition will create a side-yard setback violation. Name and address for the record please. Yes. My name is Albert Holland. I'm the owner of 3 Milstreet. I've resided there for the past 12 years. I'm asking for a variance for extension to expand by one family. I'm trying to get additional living space. I need a handicap son who needs a room on the first floor and we like to add a go-through to the basement, one level, and add that to additional living space. So what will be the space in the basement? What will the use of the space in the basement before? The use for a playroom for my son as well. We hope to have a one bedroom on the first floor as you walk in for him. Okay. How are the plans for Mr. Arleck? The plans are adequate. What is the ceiling height of the basement? I'll be here with my... 7.6. 7.6? Okay. The plans are adequate. Yes, ma'am. Any questions from the board? Does anybody here speak in support of this proposal? Morning, Madam Chair and Members of the board. My name is David Cotter from the Mayor's Office of the Neighborhood Services. We'd like to unrecord and support. We held an onsite of butters meeting. All of the butters in attendance expressed their full support. And he also has the support of the Clan Points of the Association. Thank you very much. Madam Chair and Members of the board, Jill McGeckrenth, City Council of Frank Baker's Office. Would also like to unrecord and support. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, all Sullivan. We have a set of consults that are going to fly. I'd like to unrecord and support. Thank you. Does anybody here in opposition? May I have a motion, please? Motion to approve. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Please, Madam Chair. It's all... No exterior. Okay. No exterior work will be done. No. Okay. Is there a second? Yes. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. You're also. The EOA 633952616 to 16... 624, Blue Hill Avenue. This is to change our from a wireless communications church, restaurant offices and barbershop, to wireless communications church, restaurant offices and printing shop. Violation dot, 60, section 16. Printing shop uses a forbidden use. Amen, Adria. Still the record. My name is Charles Segrés. I'm a bar for a 666, actually 624. How can you speak up? I'm having a little... That just tapes. Sorry, Charles Segrés. Adria's a 616 to 624. We actually particularly talk about the Adria's 620 Blue Hill Avenue. 620 is the front... Is that the front floor? Yes. Okay. I'll just give you a quick break. Okay. I'll just give you a quick break. Okay. I'll just give you a quick break. Okay. I'll just give you a quick break. Tell us what you're proposing. So what we're doing here is a copy shop. That's something we're doing like faxing, copies, stuff like that. If they want to do business cards and custom design flyers, stuff like that. So we're actually just a small print shop. Something like that. So there's more of it. Like a business solution shop. What are your proposed hours of operation? I'm a proposed... I was offered money through Friday from 10 to 8. Saturday from 12 to 4. 12 to 5. So your entranceway is right next to the entranceway to the strand? Is that a one? No, no. No, that's actually a one. I'll be right back. So which front did you say? There should be... It's right next to the entrance to the church. Almost right next to the entrance to the church. Okay. Does it have grates on the front? No, it's fine. How are the plans of St. August? It's just a floor plan in Zartakoy. Will there be new signage on the exterior? They will be new signs on the front of the exterior. For us, a canopy and design. This isn't pretty much. Is it replacing the existing signage or...? Actually right now there's nothing on the other side. Any other questions on the board? Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Is anybody here in opposition? I'm terribly sorry. I'm speaking in support. Madam Chair, members of the board, John Ellison, Mayors Office of Neighborhood Services. On behalf of Flavio DeVega, we'd like to go on record and support. Sorry about that. Is anybody here in opposition? May I have a motion, please? Second. All those in favour? Aye. Sorry. And that didn't... Yes? With... With the sign review? With the sign review. Well, the makeups of motion accept that... Proviso? Is there exterior work being done? Yes. There's no exterior work right now. Yes. This is just a sign. Yes. Okay. All those in favour? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Aye. So good luck. Calling BOA 651-452-79 Habibu Street. This is a constructed additional living space to the basement. First floor, family room, home office, and workshop. The Violations Article 9 Section 1. Extension of a non-conforming use 3F and a 2F sub-district. Article 65 Section 9. Excessive FAR. Name and address for the record. Bill Orrenberger, 28-hour-way drive situate. I'm here with my daughter, Jill Orrenberger, in my son-in-law, Jermaine Malcolm owners of the subject property. They've recently renovated the property. Jermaine's a general contractor, Joseph City of Boston teacher. They moved in with my granddaughter on the first floor. There are tenants in the other units. And what they're looking to do is expand the living space to build a playroom, family room, home office, and a workshop for Jermaine in the basement of the property. And how are the plans, Mr. Orren? Well, plans are okay, although in the proposal it shows that the ceiling height is 6 foot 8.66. Actually, it's an 8 foot ceiling, and there's a duct in part of it that might be, so it might be a half a foot lower. So you will be clearing it up so that it meets floor to ceiling height requirements? Absolutely. Okay. Well, it has to be clear. It says here on the proposed ceiling height 6 foot 8, so that's not a mistake. That's a mistake. So for the record, you're clearing it up that, in fact, Yes, we'll make it to compliance with City and Special Service. Okay. And is the utility room separate? Yes. Okay. So I asked you how the plans were, right? Yeah. Any questions from the Board? Does anybody here just speak in support of this proposal? Morning, Madam Chair, members of the Board. My name is David Carter from the Mayor's Office of the Needwood Services. We'd like to go on record and support health and a butter's meeting. All of the butter's attendance expressed their support for the project, and they also have the support of the Columbia Savon Health Civic Association. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the Board, Jim McGatrick and City Councilor Frank Baker's office, we'd like to go on record and support. Thank you. Does anybody here in opposition? May I have a motion? Yes, Madam Chair. Just because on the stamp set of drawings, it does say 648. I would like to make a motion to deny any building for a relief. This is us. Perfect. So it's a motion for approval with no code relief. Yes. Is there a second? Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries with that. Can you tell me what's the provisoid in here? No building for a relief. No building for a relief. So that the ceiling height has to be... Okay. Thank you very much. Dr. Rowling, BOA 624, 721, 192 to 194 Aemory Street. This is the finish attic space. Create open... Opening between 3rd and 4th floor. Violation, Article 55, Section 9, Laplodia Ratio is excessive. Article 55, Section 9, the building height, number of stories is excessive. Name and address for the record. Andrea Suwong, 192 to 194 Aemory Street. So tell us, is this a one or two family dwelling and what is being proposed? Okay. So this is a existing little three family dwelling and what we're proposing is to finish the currently unfinished attic and create an opening between the 3rd and 4th to create one continuous duplex unit. We are not intending to add occupancy and we're not changing anything of the exterior footprint. So what is the proposed use of the attic? It will be a master suite, master bedroom and then a reading, nook and a play room. Master bedroom and... Okay. And how many bedrooms will that unit have? That unit will have four bedrooms. Is there a two story space being created? Yeah. So there's an opening between the 3rd and 4th floor. And so that is towards the rear to the cross from the balcony, right? Yes. How are the plans, Mr. Ehrlich? Any questions from the board? Does anybody here have to speak in support of this proposal? Good morning, my name is Julie and I'm already in my office. Services that this time we would like to go on record of support of this application. They do go through a local butters process as well as the local community process and the Jamaica Play Neighborhood Council zoning committee. All of this we are recommended through. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Andrew Balvezon from the Office of District 6 City Councilor Madel-Malley. You like to go on record and support? Thank you. Does anybody here in opposition? May I have a motion, please? Is there a second? Better. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. You're all set. Good luck. Calling the OA 641-206-174-4 stills free. This is the law which skills to get here centered. They went to install a new fixed awning above the first floor patio. The awning is an L shape, 23 feet by 9 inches across. The front is 22 feet, 7 inches on the right side. Violation, dynamical 9 section 1. Extension of a 19 forming use. Name and address for the record. Proper creating 174. Forest Hill Street, Jamaica Play. So tell us what's being proposed? Well, the facility's 120 bed nursing facility has a front patio that's elevated as the lots kind of elevated. The patio gains a lot of sun. Some of the patients of the facility can tolerate sun, some cannot. So we decided to kind of split the patio and cover half of it with the awning. I believe the issue again was close to the street. And this will be just a summer awning. No, it's going to stay up all four seasons. It's a canvas awning, aluminum framed. It's pretty solid structure. How are the plans Mr. Ehrlich? The plans I saw yesterday only had a side plan, but we just distributed today. It wasn't drawing the awning, but you have it. You do have a sneak peek. Yeah, so with that addition, that's the drawing theoretical. Okay. Any questions from the board? Does anybody here to speak and support of this proposal? Good morning, Madam Chair. I'm just the board. And the authority may as opposite neighborhood services. At this time, we would like to go and record and support of this application. The applicant went through a thorough community process as well as working with their abusers, working with local groups, as well as the Jamaican and the American Health and Zoning Committee. And we appreciate all of the duties of the community and will continue to do. And this time, we are in record and support. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board. Thank you. I'll go to the office of City Councilor Madhalla. He's going to record and support. Thank you. Is anybody here to speak in opposition? May I have a motion? Second. All those in favour? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Good luck. Very much. Following BOA 636-H2932 Cherokee Street, this is the amendment for approval of the setbacks for the existing deck with the new third floor deck on the same footprint. I will ask the amendment for approval of the setbacks for the next six months. Let me ask the floor to be prepared. I will ask the floor to be prepared. Please be prepared. Thank you. Mr. Chair, please. Mr. Chair, please. Mr. Chair, please. Mr. Chair, please. Mr. Chair, please tell us what is being proposed. We were proposing to do, we had applied for a, to do an addition for Mr. Chair, to work. And then when we got to the rough, they had stated that we didn't have the right form, so they actually go put the long form once they got the long form. So when we did the square footage on the, on the space, they said we didn't have enoughs set back for the deck, which is an existing deck, that's a place. This is an existing deck. You could have met exactly the same footprint. Exactly. Not changing the footprint. And tell us about the third floor deck. The third floor deck. Same as the second. Same thing. Nothing's changed. We built everything on the same deck. On the same footprint. Okay. How are the classes to other? Any questions from the board? So anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the board, I'm just Selgrove from the mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. At this time we'd like to go on record and support. And what we have is that they held, our office held in a butters meeting and there were no opposition raised. Welcome. Is anybody here in opposition? May I have a motion please? Motion go ahead. There are a second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Thank you. Good luck. And thank you. Ladies and gentlemen. Parliament be always 636-64438 William Street. William Street here. We'll hold that one. B-O-A-6444-75202 Southampton Street. This is changed. Change the occupancy to a Cod dealership. Violation is out of the 90s, section 7. Use is forbidden. May be an address to the record please. And it's only there. Burns, 117, 125, summer street, Boston, Massachusetts, 02110. For the applicant, Boston Farm Motor. This is an existing light industrial use. It's currently occupied by a wholesale construction materials business that sells wholesale materials to builders and contractors. The proposed project is to redevelop the site into an automobile dealership and a service in maintenance facility. So you're proposing to combine lots and then change the use to a retail service and maintenance facility. It's essentially, yes. It's a motor vehicle sales use and a repair and maintenance use as well. Okay. And is Boston Foreign Motors in, does it have a different, another location? Yes they do. And my client is here. They have a location currently in Austin. And on right, do you have that billboard right in the middle of your parking lot? No. We're on Cambridge Street. On Cambridge Street? On Cambridge Street, yeah. Okay. We have to see what the proposed plan is. And how many vehicles are you proposing? There's a space on the site for 196 vehicles, which includes 44 spaces for employees and customers. The redevelopment plan for the site calls for leaving the building intact. So the building is going to stay exactly as it is except for a vestibule which is on the front of the building facing Southampton Street. And that's going to be removed. So the front of the building is essentially going to be squared off. We're going to take away 4,000 square feet from the interior space. So the building is actually going to get smaller. But on all other three sides, there's no change. There is a small shed on the building, which is on the coming street side. And that is going to be removed as part of this project. There is a, the motor vehicle sales use isn't allowed use in this district. We also have the repair and maintenance use, which isn't allowed use, provided that it's less than 20,000 square feet. But I didn't say so vehicles isn't allowed, sale of vehicles is allowed use. I'm sorry, it's a conditional use. Yes. And services in allowed use provided that it's less than 20,000 square feet. And this project, we're well under that. Where about 11,800? And is there a car wash that's something here show car wash? There's no car wash. Okay. How are the plans Mr. Erlich? There is something that shows a car wash stall in your cyclans. There's not going to be a public car wash. There may be a bumming inside for washing a car in the service area. But there's not going to be any public car wash. Any questions from the Board? Does anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Good morning Madam Chair, members of the Board, Sam Chambers, Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. We'd like to go on record and support the applicant went through the B.O.A. community process and the New Market Square Association. Is in support of this as well. So we'd like to welcome her to support. Thank you. Is anybody here to speak in opposition? May I have a motion please? Motion to approve the area design. And also if you don't mind Peter to add that there be a spring along both Cummings and more street. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries but that's the vice. I'm going to go back to the case called previous calling B.O.A. 636-64438 William Street. Is William Street here? It is now 1036. I'll make a motion for denial without part of it. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. I don't see any more minutes. Stop the 1031. Calling the 1030 cases. Are there any deferrals or withdrawals for 1030? Call the first case. 1030. Calling B.O.A. 628576. 205 West 8th Street. This is to direct a new six unit residential building with roof deck. Violation is article 14, section 14-1. Minimum lot size requirement is insufficient. Article 14, section 14-2. Thank you, sir. Lot of area for additional dwelling unit is insufficient. Article 14, section 3. Lot width is insufficient. Article 14, section 4. Lot frontage is insufficient. Article 15, section 1. Floating area ratio is excessive. Article 17, section 1. Usable open space required is insufficient. Article 18, section 1. Front yard requirement is insufficient. Article 20, section 1. The area requirement is insufficient. An article 23, section 23-1. Boss Street Factor requirement is insufficient. Name and address for the record please. Morning Madam Chair. My name is George Moranse. I'm an attorney with the Business Address of 350 West Broadway. So, Boston, I'm joined by the buyers and developers of the building mark Murphy and Brenda Noe Shea, my clients. Madam Chair, members, this is an application for proposed six family building at 205 West 28th Street. It is not far from a site where this board fairly recently approved renovation and expansion of a six family dwelling also on West 8th Street. The zoning district, as in that case, is in H-150. If there would be six parking spaces, garage parking spaces associated with the units, it would be a four-story building. The lot size is 3468 square feet. The resulting FAR would be 2.53. In terms of other violations. Mr. Moranse, is this a corner lot that you have to...is this a corner lot at all? No. No. It's an infill. Yes. Okay. Well, there's an existing building there. So, tell me the units and the sizes of the units, please. So, the arrangement of the units or the building is that there is a ground floor garage. And then on floors 2, 3, and 4, there are two units per floor. The unit sizes are 1152 square feet. Each, there are two bedroom units. And since this is an elevated building, the front-forward facing units are type 1 accessible. With respect to the violations, there's a cited side yard setback violation in an H-150. So, the first 70 feet of the lot depth, this building is 71.5 feet in length. So, the violation is really attributable only to 1.5 feet of the depth of the building. Is there a roof deck proposed? There's a unit 5 roof deck, which measures 10 by 5 access directly from unit 5. And there is a unit 6 roof deck. Same dimensions in access only by unit 6, neither of the roof decks creates a zoning violation. And that's a via hatch? Via hatch, yes. And with respect to the parking, the cited parking violation as the board is well aware, standard parking spaces, 8.5 by 20. This was cited due to the dimensions of the parking spaces, and I will go through those. Two of the spaces are 8 feet, four in a quarter inches by 19 feet. One is 17.5. I'm sorry, one is 9 by 17.5. The next one next to that is also 9 by 17.9 by 19, I apologize, 9 by 19. And then, two other spaces are 9 by 7.5 inches by 17.5. So this is drawing a 1.1? A 1.1 shows the buildings garage with access from West 8th as well as the entry lobby elevator core and six parking spaces, yes. Okay. Did you mention on the parking side of the 2.8 foot 4 and 4? So again, yeah, I'll go through that because I made a bit of a hash of it. In the upper left hand corner, there are two spaces that are 8, 4 and a quarter by 17, 8 and a half. Next to that, there are two spaces. There are 9 foot slots slot width and then to my eye, they both appear to be 19 feet, but there is a dimension existing there. They show 17 and a half, which caused my confusion, but they are both in fact 19 feet on the plans because they're the same symmetrical spaces. And then the two lower spaces, Mr. Ehrlich, again, I have them at 17 and a half by 9 feet, 7 and a half inches. Any questions on the board? Does anybody here have to speak in support of this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the board, John Allison, Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services, we did hold an onsite of butters meeting and we would like to go on record and support. Thank you. Are you speaking in support? Mayor, is anybody here to speak in opposition? Madam Chair, members of the board, James Chan with City Council Bill, in the hands office. It is our position that the new zoning article 68, which is in place currently, should be weighed in, weighed against this project. We understand the hardship for those who applied on the old zoning, but article 68 is in place. All projects going forward should roughly meet the criteria set in the new zoning. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Paul Sullivan, we have City Council out loud. Michael Plyardi, Councilor Larkin, I'm going to send them in so they can just look at the council. Thank you. Your name and address for the record please? Opposition. Yes. Ruffa, Illa Hanley, Council for the Truman Realty Trust. My address is 368 West Broadway in South Boston. Do you have any documentation please submitted but summarize for us what your opposition is based on? It's based on the density, the height, all ten violations of the zoning code. I would also like to ask the board, well initially I asked the board to deny the application today, but I also would like to inform the board that the trust was not notified of the neighborhood meeting. So, I have now made arrangements to hopefully meet with the developers, but at this time I would ask the board at a minimum to defer its decision or to deny the application. I have submitted prior to this meeting as well as an original copy of the letter detailing all the trust objections. Thank you. Does anybody else here to speak in opposition? Not in opposition, but I would like to say given these objections I don't think a deferral would be totally unreasonable. Mr. Marenti, your response. With respect to notification, Ms. Aradio, if that is the basis for deferral being sought, the previous speaker represents the property owner or is actually one of the property owners of a parcel that's a surface parking lot. So the way that community process is done has always been done and my recollection is that flyer drops have done in the neighborhood. Flyers are left in mailboxes and on properties. This is simply a parking lot. The requirement by code for process for this board is that about property owners are mailed notice of hearing by the board of appeal. The neighborhood process is much less formal and again notification is accomplished to people who actually live in the impacted neighborhood by flyer drops. With respect, but with that I do agree that we did speak with the previous speaker in opposition immediately before the hearing and did commit to continuing to meet with them to address any concerns. The same applicants who own this parking lot also filed an appeal of the decision of which I previously spoke at 199 Westay. So I'm not sure if there's really any. I'm not sure of any accommodation can be made. It's not a matter of moving a building or removing windows for privacy. I mean, what's being impacted here is a commercial parking lot and I use the word impacted, I guess, in quotation marks because what we're proposing is a residential building and a residential neighborhood with respect. The parking lot is the not is the not is the not conform use that benefited from relief from this board an earlier day. With respect to the opposition based on applicability of 68, I think that is and I don't use the word disparagingly. That's a political argument in terms of the legal effect of the enactment of article 68 as this board is well aware. Every project which was which applications were submitted for into the old zoning is to be judged by the new zoning. So it's very simple. Whatever is on the refusal later is the governing zoning. And I say this only because I expect that the opposition based on the current existence of the article 68 zoning is going to be recurring refrain as we sort of weed the system of the old applications. And that has been the process for a period of time as all the neighborhoods have gone through their rezoning that whatever has been applied for, that's the citations that we use. So given this information may I have a motion please. Can I ask a question? Council you held on site about us meetings? Yes. And about us meeting was held. Okay. And Mr. Allison can you respond to the on site about us meeting for me? I mean regards to what was the response of the neighbors, how many people attended, that kind of. So I can get a general feel for what the neighborhood feels. So I would say we had applied to 10 people in the present. I think the present is not any private property. There were a couple people who were present about the existing consent back. My belief in understanding is that the city side neighborhood association is in support of the project. Yes. City sites say to me that they were certainly not in office. So may I have a motion given all this information? I'm going to make a motion for approval. With the R.A. design review. Yes. With design review. Yes, second. There are second. All those in favor. Hi. Any opposed? Motion carries with that. Provise. Thank you. Calling B.O.A. 643-238-511E. Fifth Street. There is a companion case B.O.A. 643-240-502-R.E. Sixth Street. This is for 511E. Fifth. This is to renovate an existing building, change our country to seven residential units, and add two story addition to the existing footprint. There will be a side addition for a new steel well. The violation is Article 14, Section 14-2. Radiary to accommodate a seven dwelling unit is insufficient. Article 14, Section 14-3. Required, locked width is insufficient. Article 14, Section 4. Required, locked frontage is insufficient. Article 15, Section 1. Floating area ratio is excessive. Article 17, Section 1. Usable open space is insufficient. Article 18, Section 1. Required, front yard setback is insufficient. Article 19, Section 1. Required, side yard setback is insufficient. Article 20, Section 1. Radiary to requirement is insufficient. Article 23, Section 1. Usable open requirement is insufficient. This is for 512, Radiary to be sixth Street. This is to renovate the existing building and install parking lifts for 26 parking spaces. Violations, Article 8, Section 7. Parking garage is a conditionally used. Article 9, Section 1. Extension of a nonconforming use is conditional. An Article 23, Section 9. Oxtree parking design, access drive, and maneuverability. Name and address for the record today. Good morning, Madame Chair and Members of the Board. My name is Jewish Marancy. To my right is Attorney Frances Adams. We are attorneys with the business address of 350 West Broadway and South Austin. To attorney Adams' right is James Christopher of RCA, the Project Architecture Texts, and our client. Madame Chair, Members, this is, let's say not as confusing as it sounds from the two refusal letters in the description. I do want to clarify immediately for the record that the plans of the Board is looking at now are revised from what was initially submitted mainly in terms of a reduction in the number of parking spaces. Advertising went out based upon the initial application, which I think raised concerns among the butters that commitments that have been made to reduce the total number of on-site parking spaces to 21 were not being adhered to. In fact, the plans that the Board has show 21 spaces in total, and we are seeking only 21 spaces here for the seven units. I also point out that the plans submitted differ from the original plans and that they show the removal of an existing garage door on the East to the 6th Street side of the property. There will be no garage door, no vehicular egress, two or access from the 6th Street, what is shown on the plans is simply a door for people to allow for emergency egress from the garage. So, what I would like you to address is how this parking is going to look. So, the. And you also have the design of all street parking facilities is violated. Yes, so if the Board were to look at the site plan, the 8 1 1 1 2 3, the site plan on the cover of the pages, this provides a site overview, which shows a very unusually shaped site bounded by East 5th Street, East 6th Street and I Street. There is an existing driveway on the I Street side and there will in fact be a garage entrance on that I Street side to the left of the two surface parking spaces. So, the driveway comes in from I Street and then enters the building at the rear of the 5 11 East 5th Street portion of the building, which is where one would enter the garage. If you now ship your attention to sheet A1, this shows the basement plan, which is where the garage entrance would be, the vehicles would be coming in from the right as the board is looking at plans. And there are two parking spaces to the right next to the trash room. So, we now are up to four spaces and then if one looks down at the lower section of the plan, there are tandem parking spaces. I'm sorry not tandem, this is a lift system. So, there are 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 slots times 2 cars is 16 spaces added to the 4 I previously mentioned is 20 and there's one additional parking space in the corner down at the bottom right. Okay, so tell me about the design of the street parking facilities, which is stated as a violation. I suspect I mean I can identify there's probably one violation for maneuverability area just for the final parking space. Well, actually the lifts are always going to result in that violation. If you use a lift because you're not providing a full 8 1 1 1 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 2 2 2 2 3 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 5 4 3 5 4 4 4 5 5 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 5 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 5 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 3 4 4 5 4 4 4 4 44 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 5 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 That's correct. There are no lists there. The lifts are. There are also two on the driveway, which I mentioned. Again, if you go to the site plan sheet, there are two to the side of the driveway. Excuse me. So we have a hearing sensation. Can you please wait? Okay. Okay, wait. It's disturbing us and we need to concentrate on what the applicants are at the table and not speaking about. Okay, so we will take a break and we'll see you here for 1130 and we'll go. So just please hold on. Go ahead, Mr. Marence, will you answer a question? I believe Mr. Relic is satisfied with my response. Okay, sorry. Any other questions? To those around the office and on the cover. The two outside. Correct. Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the board, John Ellison Mayors Office of Neighborhood Services. We'd like to go on record and support. This project has been through a pretty extensive community process. They reached an agreement with the abutters, including the 16 spaces in the stackers on the rear lot and not elevating the height of the rear lot. So we'd like to go on record and support. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Paul Sullivan, I'd be happy to have you. City Council out loud, Michael Flarey, Councilor to go on record and support. Thank you. Is anybody here in opposition? May I have a hearing opposition? Madam Chair, members of the board, James Chan City Constability Hands Office, without going into my whole statement, which is our position that the new zoning of our co-sixation should be weighed against this project. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I just submitted several letters in support. Madam Chair, my name is Richard Evans. I'm a member. I'm the vice president of the Gated Heaven Neighborhood Association. I am here in support of this project. We had a unanimous vote back in November 9th of our group fully in support of this project. Thank you. Is anybody here, anybody else in opposition? May I have a motion, please? Motion to approve. Second. With the area, yeah. Motion to approve. Planning area design. The design of you. Is there a second? Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Following BOA 601-472-545-547-E-Sturridge Street. This is demolition existing structure combined two lots into one lot and erect a new 26-unit residential building with indoor garage parking and first floor for 26 cars on the first floor indoor garage. The violation is Article 57, Section 26. Off street loading requirements is insufficient. Article 57, Section 8. Multi-unit building use 26 is forbidden use. Article 57, Section 9. Law Day Area for additional units is insufficient. Article 57, Section 9. Lot width requirement is insufficient. Article 57, Section 9. Lot frontage requirement is insufficient. Article 57. Floor Day Ratio is excessive. Article 57, height is excessive. 35 feet is the max. Article 57, Section 9. High disaccessive. Three stories is max. Article 57, Section 9. Useable open spaces in sufficient. Article 57, Section 9. Minuman Front Yaat Requiamment is insufficient. Article 57, Section 9. Minuman Front Yaat Requ高 Infimetry. Minuman Front Yaat Requ missing.ShareCreate Jackson-Mix nurre. Article 57, Section 9. Minuman Radio Rec Mandarin required insufficient. Article 59, Section 37. Off-For inne ft. Parking Coignment is insufficient and Article 59 section 37. Off-For inne fishing design. Access Drives and Minurability. Still the record please. Members of the Board, my name is George Moranci, I'm an attorney with the business address of 350 West Broadway and South Boston. I'm joined by my client, David Winnick, purchaser and developer of the property. Madam Chair, members, this is an article 80 small project, which was approved by the BRAA BPDA Board last month. It calls for the leveling of an existing small building on a large lot, over 10,000 square feet. The current building is a single family with a hair salon on the first floor, and then a very uneven site that sparrows up the back up a hill to the rear of properties that are but on East Broadway. My client is proposing a new 5 story 18 unit building with 22 parking spaces. There was a reduction in the number of units as a result of a long ongoing dialogue with the BRAA over the size and dimensions of the project. The unit count was reduced from 22. Also at that time the BRAA had wanted very strongly to see a reduction in physical dimensions of the building to allow for some greater setbacks, particularly on the sides and in the rear. How has that affected your violations? It's affected violations only in the sense of FAR. We still have a violation, but it's been reduced from 2.8 to 2.46. The dimensional violations have been reduced by in most cases about three feet. Tell us about the unit sizes, the breakdowns, or any of these affordable? Yes, again as an article 80 small project requiring relief, there would be three. Actually I have to do the math again. So we reduce the number. Two affordable units with payment to the inclusionary development fund. And again originally there had been three but with reduction in units numbers that drops to two and a small fraction. In terms of unit sizes they are a mix of one and two bedroom units. There are a couple of one bedroom units and about 800 square feet with the majority of the one bedroom units. I'm sorry the majority of the one bedroom are about 800 square feet and the two bedroom units range in size from roughly 1100 to roughly 1200. How are the plans Mr. Arlen? Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the board, John Allison, mayors office of neighborhood services. We'd like to go on record and support. This project has been through an article 80 process and has also made several changes to the unit count and design. In addition the proponents have been pillars of the community for many years which should be taken into consideration. And I think we've arrived at a project that everyone is comfortable with. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Jessica, I guess from City Council out there, Anisa, the Cyber Georgia's office and the council are also like to go on record and support. Thank you. Is anybody here in opposition? I'm sorry, I'm in favor. Okay. My name is Kelly O'Shea, a member of St. Phenese Neighborhood Association. The Petri family is a pillar of the community and they have been for many many years back in the 70s. The Petri family donated the library parking lot for the self-loss library. That parking lot was donated by the Petri family when the city needed the lot. And now the Petri family is looking forward to our hardship permits themselves. Opposition please? Yes? Madam Chair, members of the board, James Chan City Council Bill in hand office again. It's our position that the new zoning article 68 which is in place. This project should be weighed against. Thank you. Thank you. I have Shannon's and Moe Paul Sullivan. I have to say council out loud, Michael Flaherty, Council Act Aco, the sentiments of District Council in hand. Thank you. Madam Chair, Craig Delessia, I'm a resident at 535 East Third Street. I submitted a letter to a number of people on the board yesterday in opposition. And I'm opposing due to the size, height and density of the current project. This is a very large building on a street that really does not have buildings anywhere close to this size, even with the revised plans. Additionally, my sense is that the community has not been well informed throughout the process as they could have been. And there was really only one of butters meeting back in May. And I was not well informed of that. And my understanding is that the attendance was rather low there as well. And again, really my issue with the current project is really around the size. It is a five-story building on a three-story building. Thank you. Ms. Moritz, your response. This respect to the size and massing, again, it's a large site with FAR2.46, which I think in terms of density, is about part of the course in this section of South Boston. The height of the building is in fact five stories, but there's a wedding cake effect to the design sheet A3-1. I think demonstrates this so the board can see that the building actually presents itself where there is an edifice on Third Street as a three-story building, as it steps back towards Broadway. It grows to a four and then finally in the FAR-rear five-story. And then of course there is a full lot separating this building from the previous speakers building next door that a lot is used as parking for the building at 535, which coincidentally I also approved at this board some years ago. And again, this area in the front here cannot be built upon. It's a DND restricted lot. So this open space area here will be preserved. Who isn't deeded to? It's the same owner as 535. Given that information, may I have a motion please? Make a motion to approve with a design review. Sarah, second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. You're all set. Good luck. For the people who are coming in for the 1130, we will be taking a break after the 1030 cases. So we will give you enough notice about when 1130 begins so you can step out of the room. Should you just so desire? So we, and obviously I think we're running behind schedule. So just to let everybody know. Thank you. Thank you. Yes. Calling BOA 654490, 112 St. Patal Street. This is a change actually to a single family dwelling, renovations of the basement, second and third floor, and replacement windows. New first floor red deck. Violation, identical 41, section 18. Radio out as its official. They may add just for the record please. On the turn of Eugene Kelly, 223, Commonwealth Avenue, Boston. To the owner. Douglas Miller, 112 St. Patal Street, Boston. You architect? Loud Bradley, ART Architects, 262 Washington Street. So it appears that the only violation you have is the rear yard violation. Is that triggered by the rear deck, the first floor rear deck? Yes. The rear deck expands the width of the building and a 6 foot deep. And is post-supported because it's on the first floor. Okay. And this is a two unit, two unit condominium building that the owner owned one of the units for a number of years. When the other unit became available, they purchased it and they were in the process of converting it into a single family house with their own use. So we're looking for a change of occupancy from the two family for one thing. Okay. So all the plans were stolen. Plans were out of control. Any questions from the board? Does anybody here just speak in support of this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the Board, I'm just out of the garage with Office of Neighborhood Services. At this moment, we would like to go on record and support and just state that there was a meeting held with the butters and they have support and they also have the support of the neighborhood association. Thank you. We have a letter of support from the neighborhood association. Thank you. Is anybody here in opposition? May I have a motion? One notice, because the rear of the building is visible from Durham Street, design review should be to the St. Patal Architectural Conservation District. It's another building. They can review the whole building. Thanks for the clarification. Motion of approval. Is there a second? All those in favor? Hi. Any opposed? Motion carries. Good luck. Following BOA 634-842-212 West Canton Street. This is a replace of Red Deck on the same footprint. Violation, diatical 64.9.4, town, a row house extension into Red. Name an address for the record. Who's going to be speaking at the table? Who both of us? Okay. What's your name and address on the record? Alex Tzilagas to 12 West Canton Street. Tell us what's being proposed. We made a proposal to legalize an existing deck that was built in 1982 and was recently rebuilt to the same footprint. Okay. So you're trying to legalize a deck from 1982. Tell us about this deck. Well, if I could tell you, we pull the short form pyramid. Now just tell us about the design. What is it? It was a second. Excuse me. Before you start. Do you have any drawings of this? Yeah. There are no drawings that the board has. No drawings. Don't we submit drawings for this? There were no drawings yesterday. No drawings. Do you have no drawings on you? Madam Chairwoman, let me see what was actually submitted. I have what was submitted. We do have some plans if you'd like to see them. Any time is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Sam Chambers, Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. We'd like to welcome you to support as the applicant has stated. This is just the legalization of the deck. There was no butters meeting where there were no butters and attendance. And I haven't received no correspondence in opposition to this to a letter of support. Thank you. So, anybody here in opposition? How are the plans, Mr. Overs? Is this in the soft end? Yes. Right, yeah. And the existing deck is in Wendell to the spending hour. The original deck was a wood deck. It's been there since way before the 80s. It wasn't built without permit in must of it. Yes. And so it was rebuilt and that's what it was called. And how did we build this year? We did submit plans to the ISD. We did obtain a short form permit. The inspector came out, he approved the footings, he approved the, he would come out on the finish structure. And when he came out on the finish, he realized that it was only short form permit. And then he asked the question, did the original deck go through the permitting process? And that's when he asked us to go and get the long form, which is at the prenotes here today. And he asked us that question is what? Was the original deck go through this process? No, it did not. So, what we have here is a wood deck that is now being asked to be replicated. If I may interrupt you sir, we built this steel deck. Just let it finish. It's a steel deck now. It is a steel deck, is that what the plans show? Yes. And what's the mention of that deck? You have been here for a few years, I don't have any. It was built to the original footprint. And the inspector improved that as well. If I may, Madam Chairwoman, my name is Shogga Tussi. I'm a trustee of 212 West Canton Street at Unit 2. The problem we have is that the Article 64, which provides for the South End neighborhood, District and contains the zoning provisions that are cited in our notice of refusal here, wasn't enacted until the late 90s. No, we're aware of that. But the fact of the matter is the original deck was not bombeted adequately. So this is what happens here and later. So please, please, please. Shogga, while these guys look at the plans and figure it out. It looks like it's about 24x10. The structure is a 20 foot by 10 foot. But it was made to be supported. It said, usually what happens is that the second deck is a 10x10, then it alternates to the right side and another 10x10. But the whole structure was made to support the... I'll stand on the steel plates here in the concrete pedestal. Steel plates in the prints. Correct. So any questions from the board? So the plans are adequate. Mr. Relic. Mr. Pazani, does this satisfy your questions? It answers, erances. Okay. Okay. So may I have a motion? We have as much information as we're going to get. May I have a motion? Motion to approve. No second. You're all done. Is there a second? No second. All those in favor? No, I have. Any opposed? I don't oppose. I too am opposed to that. But motion carries. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. We're going to take a five minute break to allow for technical adjustments in the back. We will convene immediately. We will convene immediately. We will convene immediately. Excuse me. Excuse me. Condices need to stop. Thank you. Have a seat, please. We will now continue with the 10-30 cases. We will be taking a break. We will be taking the 11-30s out of order. We will be listening to the ward 17 to ward 3 cases prior to hearing the ward 20 case. Okay. Just to let everybody know. So let's, the next case, please, Mr. Chair. The following is the following. The following is the following. The following is the following. The following is the following. The following is the following. The following is the following. The following is the following. The following is the following. The following is the following. The following is the following. The following is the following. The following is the following. The following is the following. The following is the following. The following is the following. The following is the following. The following is the following. The following is the following. The following is the following. The following is the following. The following is the following. The following is the following. The following is the following. The following is the following. The following is the following. The following is the following. The following is the following. The following is the following. The following is the following. The following is the following. The following is the following. The following is the following. The following is the following. The following is the following. The following is the following. The following is the following. The following is the following. The following is the following. The following is the following. The following is the following. The following is the following. The following is the following. The following is the following. The following is the following. The following is the following. The following is the following. The following is the following. The following is the following. The following is the following. The following is the following. The following is the following. The following is the following. The following is the following. The following is the following. The following is the following. The following is the following. The following is the following. The following is the following. The following is the following. The following is the following. The following is the following. The following is the following. The following is the following. The following is the following. The following is the following. The following is the following. The following is the following. The following is the following. The following is the following. The following is the following. The following is the following. The following is the following. The following is the following. The following is the following. The following is the following. The following is the following. The following is the following. The following is the following. The following is the following. The following is the following. The following is the following. The following is the following. The following is the following. The following is the following. The following is the following. The following is the following. The following is the following. The following is the following. The following is the following. The following is the following. The following is the following. The following is the following. The following is the following. The following is the following. The following is the following. The following is the following. The following is the following. The following is the following. The following is the following. The following is the following. The following is the following. The following is the following. The following is the following. The following is the following. The following is the following. The following is the following. The following is the following. The following is the following. This front zone, Sean C. Street, Avenue Louis Pasteur, and I believe it's Bedford Street. Avenue Louis Pasteur. Yeah, I think it's... Yes, yes. That was the mental fence on the open. Yes, it's, yeah. Okay. And I think a couple of weeks ago, we approved the parking lot across the street. Yeah, that was the mental fence on the open. Yes. It's, yeah. Okay. And I think a couple of weeks ago, we approved the parking lot across the street. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. with BRA design review. We're talking about pedestrians. Now that that area is more active, it's far more actively used. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Bob. Hold on one minute Bob. Madam Chair, members of the board, John Allison mayors, office of mayors, services and behalf of Danny Chang. We'd like to go on record and support. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, James Chan, City Council Bill, Lennie Hans Office, wish, current working and support. Thank you. Is anybody here in opposition? Bob, did you have something to say? I guess not. Madam Gilli, members of the board, Bob, and Nico B.T.D. I was just wondering if the board was considering a time frame on this. We always do. We always do. We like to keep Mr. Gottlieb busy. What do you suggest, Bob? I'm sorry. Is this the two years? Two years. So may I have a motion please? I'll do it for two years on frame. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? You're all set. Good luck. Thank you. Following BOA 633-247-194-200-Chamon Avenue. This is to continue the use premises as an opening of public law for a capacity of 89 vehicles. The violation of Article 6, Section 03A, relief is required for the zoning board extension of the use. Additional conditions and restricted parking district. Name and address for the record please. It would Gottlieb. I'm returning my office at 309 Washington Street in Brighton. And I'm here representing the owner, Robert J. Gottlieb, L.C. By the way, no relationship in the Drooker Company, the applicant. This appeal was filed on August 11th. And we contacted at that time the New York Streets neighborhood association, which I think is better known as the Inklok people, and Mr. Ty. And we met with them in October for neighborhood meeting. And we also contacted the old Dover Neighborhood Association, Mr. Ken Smith and Robert Wells. And we heard nothing back from them until we received an email on December 1st, in which some issues were raised by one of the neighboring residences, regarding the condition of the premises, in particular, with respect to surface conditions. I can only assure the board that subsequent to that December 1 email that the lot has been regraded again. It's a crushed mixed stone surface. It has been regraded. And I would further point out that part of the grading problem has been occasioned by a oil leak and a building which is immediately adjacent to the lot. And there has been some excavation there, and some rather big vehicles going in and out of there. But in any event this past weekend, I am assured that the lot has been regraded. Mr. God, when did the use expire? I'm sorry. The issue expires December 31, 2016. Oh good. Okay. How are the plans, Mr. Oleg? Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Good morning, Madam Chairman. Chairwoman, members of the board, Sam Chambers, Marisophants of Neighborhood Services. We would like to go on record and support as stated by the applicant. They did present before the New York Street's Neighborhood Association and the Old Dover, Old Dover Neighborhood Association. And we'd like to thank them for the regrading of the parking lots. We'd like to go on record and support. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, James Chambers, City Council Bill, and he has office, like the echo the mayor's office on this and go on record and support. Thank you. Thank you. Is anybody here to speak in opposition? May I have a motion, please? My motion would be to prove this for two years. And may we have a significant upgrading and screening and buffering, please? Sure. Is there a second? Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. You're all set on that one. Calling BOA 618-637-37-Memorymack Street. This is a parking fee 75 vehicles and extend provisal which will expire on 819-2016. The violation is Article 06, Section 03A, conditional conditions in the restricted parking district, Article 6, Section 4, relief required for an extension of the provisels that require some of our street parking, Article 46, Section 9. Parking lot is a conditional use for a both-inch triangle area, naming that just for the record. Please, David Soak on that 15 broad street in Boston. Thank you. So tell us what's being proposed. Please, this is a request for an extension of parking, open air parking lot. It's been operated continuously since 1959. There are no changes proposed. Is this must-17 spaces? Pardon me, please. How many spaces? This is for 45 spaces. This is for 19 to 21. I can't hear you. I'm sorry. Is this for 19 to 21? No, 37. 37, right. No, no, no. Sorry. Okay. Okay. And this was expired in August. Okay. How are the plans, Mr. Olic? The plans are adequate. The cafe that's shown on the drawings. What is that? That's a separate piece of property. It's not our property. There's a, uh, two of the mobile station used to be. They tore it down, put a, I think, diner, swer, cap. Do you say 37 vehicles? 37, but- 37, Mariamat. You know, 45 vehicles. Just five years. This is 75. Well, the application says 45. What I think happened, if I may, and I don't know, is they have two continuous properties, one with 30 vehicles and one for 45 vehicles. Somebody must have put the number 75. But it's 45. Part of the, yeah. In a lot of them are, what can I say? But this is- So, so just, just to be totally clear. Yes, please. Put 37, Mariamat, because that's the only case that's before us and the only address that's before us. Yes. Is for 45 vehicles. Correct. And do you have the plans for that, Mr. Olic? I do. Okay. It shows the adjacent law, too, but that's not under review today. We're requesting three years if that's- Was recommended by the West End Civic Association and anybody else. So this is across the street from the- I would probably want to ask. Yes. Um. Okay. Are we- I'm getting a good look on that, because I think when I walk by there, the- The bumpers are over the sidewalk. It makes it uncomfortable as a pedestrian. No, they're all in here. And this is the front- The front- The front- The back. Or here, it's the one in the back. See? Yeah. So is anybody here to speak in support of this? Good morning, Madam Chair. I'm Mr. the Board. Maria Lanzerman's Office and the neighborhood services. We'd like to go on record and support. What the applicant has the support of both local civic organizations as well. Thank you. Hi, good morning, Madam Chair. I'm Mr. Boatj, Washington. We have the Downtown North Association. We'd also like to go on record and support. But as of the extension, be limited for a period of two years. Thank you. Is anybody here in opposition? May I have a motion, please? Motion for approval for two years. Second. May I have also, again, Attiquettes buffering so that pedestrians in fact can walk comfortably on that sidewalk? Make a, I'll accept that. Proviso, that adequate buffering be provided with following that will hold signature until we see a plan that provides for that. Is there a second? Second. All those in favor? Hi. Any opposed? Motion carries are all set. I'm Proviso for two years. Thank you. Following the next three cases, calling BOA 62643619-21 Lancaster Street. BOA 626429-31-39 Lancaster Street. And BOA 62643073-75 Causeway Street. This is for 19-21 Lancaster Street. This is a continuous premises for open and parking for a capacity of 17 vehicles. In conjunction with 73 and 75 and 31 and 39 Lancaster Street. The Violation Diagonal 6, Section 3. Additional conditions in a restricted parking district. This is for a 31 to 39 to continue the use of premises for open and parking for a capacity of 31 vehicles in conjunction with 19 to 21 Lancaster and 73 to 75 Causeway. The Violation Diagonal 6, Section 3. Additional conditions in a restricted parking district. And this is for a 73 to 75 Causeway Street. To continue the use of premises for public parking, two Haiti cap spaces in conjunction with 19-21 Lancaster and 31-39 Lancaster Street. The Violation Diagonal 6, Section 3. Additional conditions in a restricted parking district. Name and address for the record please. Edward Gottlieb. I'm in turning my office at 309 Washington Street in Brighton. And I'm here on behalf of the owner-landcast of parking LLC. Seeking to continue the use of these three parcels as a 50-car open air public parking lot. This appeal was originally filed in August 11th. And we had met with the West End Civic Association in September. And we met with the Downtown North Association early October. And I believe both neighborhood associations have voices or real voices support that continued use. So this is 19-21 that's 17 spaces at 31 to 39. That capacity is 31. And 73-75 is to the two handicap spaces. Or total of 50. Okay. How are the plans? Any questions from the board? Someone here to speak in support of this report. Madam Chair, members of the Board, Maria Lanza, Mayor's Office and Neighborhood Services. We'd like to go on record and support as I stated before the up-and-haz, the support of the West End Civic Association and the Downtown North Association. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the Board, J. Walsh, Downtown North Association. The same thing I said before. Go on record and support for a period of two years. Is anybody here in opposition? Motion, please. Motion to approve. Second. Again, screening and buffering. Screening and buffering. Is there a second? Second. All those in favor? Hi. Any opposed? Motion carries. Mr. Galkin, are you done? I am done. Okay, hold on for one second. This is a comment to the BRA or to the people who are doing design review. Please make sure that all these parking lots are looked at together so that in fact all the parking in that area is set as far as pedestrian use, screening and buffering, lighting, etc. Okay? Thank you. And that probably saves you some time, too. Thank you very much. Thank you. Colleague annex case. Colleague B.O.A. 543193, 16 Boardman Street. This is direct a new three story 19 unit residential building on an newly created combined lot. Violations article 53 section A. Multi-family residential is forbidden. Article 53 section 9. Variety area for additional dwelling units is insufficient. Article 53 section 9, usable open space is insufficient. Article 53 section 9, front yard is insufficient. Article 53 section 9, rear yard is insufficient. Article 53 section 56, boss fee parking is insufficient. Name and address for the record please. Good morning Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is George Marins, I have an attorney with the business address of 350. Wes Broadway and South Austin, I'm joined by Lyndon Shampkin of the Shampkin French Architects of Charlestown. Madam Chair, members, this is an article lady, a small project application which was approved by the BRA board last month. The project consists of 19, a new 19 unit residential kind of minion building at 16 Boardman Street in East Boston in the Orient Heights neighborhood of South Boston. There would be 27 accessory parking spaces located in a garage due to the slope and grade of the site. The garage would in fact be partially below grade. It would not be visible at all at grade on the Boardman Street side of the building. The current site is currently occupied by a single family dwelling on a lot that is nearly 13,000 square feet. The grade care was taken during the community process and in meetings with the BRA by Lyndon Shampkin to come up with a building that we believe fits in with the scale and design of the East Boston neighborhood as the board can see. The various lateral elements of the building contribute to the effect that it's actually a series of smaller buildings rather than one large 19 unit building. In terms of zoning relief, we exceed many of the requirements, a lot with, a lot frontage. We do have an FAR violation. The maximum FAR here in this district, which is a 3F2000 is 1.0, we're coming in at an FAR of 1.76. So fairly modest for this site. The maximum building height is 35 feet. Again through community process, we're now at 35 foot tall building. It is three stories. My client has eliminated what had been a penthouse level that there was some concern from a butters and other neighborhoods. Neighbors about that, that has been eliminated. In terms of the front yard, we're effectively at a modal. There's a minimum side yard setback of two and a half feet. Our side yard varies from approximately four feet to over 50 feet. On the rear yard setback, there is a requirement of 33 feet and we're at 12.1 feet, but there is quite simply nothing behind us as the board can see. There are some ball fields and open space. With that, I'll pause to get any question that the board may have on zoning a process. And then, Linda can take any questions on the attributes of the building. Can you please speak to the number of units affordable and sizes of the units, please? The units, there will be 19 units, three of which would be affordable and I think Linda and the shamkins can speak to units sizes. First of all, we have one one bedroom unit. We have. And how large is that? That one bedroom unit is there are two. Excuse me, I didn't mean to say that. Just to get my summer here. 200 units and those one bedrooms are. One is 736 feet, the other one is 600 feet. 600 square feet is a 630. The majority of the units are two bedroom, two bath. And those range and size from 950 up to almost 1,300 square feet. We have two three bedroom, sorry, one three bedroom unit as well. And that one three bedroom unit is similar in size. So the great majority of the units are in the 1100 to 1200 square foot size. How are the plans? Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak and support on this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the board, Claudia Correa from the mayor's office of neighborhood services. We would like to go and record and support this proposal. This proposal was presented early in the year at the Earring Heights neighborhood association with the proposal about 36 units then it went down to 28. The organization voted down so after that the proponents worked closely with the abodders. After having those abodders meetings, the proposal went to 19 units, keeping the 27 parking spaces being proposed. So they changed the design several times per abodders request. In addition, the direct abodders on Saratoga Street has as the developers to remove the decks which they have done so and also increase the site yard. In addition, they want them to play in mature trees. So it matches what has been there for many years. Thank you. Thank you. Is anybody here in opposition? Please put your name and address on the record and tell us what your concerns are based on. I'm Carol Sacco. I live at 25 Boydman Street. I submitted my comments to the board on Sunday. First of all, please summarize for us what your concerns are. As you well know, this is the second time this has come before the board. Last year with a different developer. There's been minor modifications to it but the size of the building is still approximately the same. And as you were aware, the size building requires a lot twice what it's trying to put it on. Every dimension is out of whack. So your concern is density then? In addition. In addition, the parking on site is insufficient and they clearly gloss over the fact that there is no off-site parking because there's no parking on that side of the street. In addition, the traffic congestion at that corner between the rotary and the traffic lights at Borden at Benitens, Saratoga, and the rotary at Boydman, Saratoga, back the traffic all the way up to Route 1A. That hasn't been addressed at all. The fact that existing is a green area and they plan to put this building exactly on the sidewalk, taking up most of the footprint. Therefore, every dimension of this project, they're looking for a variation. And I've yet to hear from this developer today a compelling reason to approve any of these variations. Thank you. Is anybody else here to speak in opposition? Given that information, may I have a motion, please? Motion to approve. Senator, you have to be exact. All those in favor? Any opposed? Motion carries. Thank you. Calling in next two cases. Calling BOA 627220, three lamps in court. There's a companion case, BOA 62721918-20 lamps in court. This is for three lamps in court. Raise an existing structure to erect a three-story townhouse. The violation is Article 53, Section 9. Inspeficient lot size. Article 53, insufficient addition, a lot area. Article 53, excessive FAR. Article 53, insufficient usable open space. Article 53, insufficient front yard setback. Article 53, Section 9, insufficient side yard setback. Article 53, Section 9, insufficient rear yard setback. And Article 53, Section 9, number of stories of height have been exceeded. This is for 18-20 lamps in street. This should be the same. Except that one has an additional violation. Section 9, insufficient lot size. Article 53, insufficient addition, a lot area per unit. Article 53, excessive FAR. Article 53, insufficient usable open space. Article 53, insufficient front yard setback. Article 53, Section 9, insufficient side yard setback. Article 53, Section 9, insufficient rear yard setback. And Article 53, Section 57, traffic visibility across the corner. May I have an address? I'm on the other side. I'm on the other side. I'm on the other side. I'm on the other side. I'm on the other side. I'm on the other side. I'm on the other side. I'm on the other side. I'm on the other side. I'm on the other side. I'm on the other side. I'm on the other side. I'm on the other side. I'm on the other side. I'm on the other side. I'm on the other side. I'm on the other side. I'm on the other side. I'm on the other side. I'm on the other side. I'm on the other side. I'm on the other side. I'm on the other side. I'm on the other side. I'm on the other side. I'm on the other side. I'm on the other side. I'm on the other side. I'm on the other side. I'm on the other side. I'm on the other side. I'm on the other side. I'm on the other side. I'm on the other side. I'm on the other side. I'm on the other side. I'm on the other side. I'm on the other side. I'm on the handle. This was formally 18 to 20 lamps. Correct. And that's 3 to 5 lamps and court to the to the left. I'll go through the projects as if they were individual projects but first just to get the board and overview. This is a site where there are currently two row house buildings and some vacant lots that turn the corner onto on to the trees and the trees and the trees. The proposal is to demo what is there now. And to do on the and Streetside, the corner lot to do a two-family townhouse style building with garage underneath. And then on three to five lamps in court, they would essentially be three horizontal, as I call it, a horizontal three-decker. It would be one unit next to the other and a townhouse style configuration. So five units in total. But it is two projects on separate lots, therefore neither has a use violation since it is in fact a three-axis. So in one case, we are proposing a two-family building. In the other case, we are proposing a three-family building and conformance with use requirements of zoning. The buildings, again, are essentially all connected single families with parking down below. They present as three-story buildings with a mezzanine level providing some additional living space above on the building, on the corner that the far right unit 1A, Lamson Court, there was a requester in community process that there not be a mezzanine located on that building because of its effect on Lamson Street and some of butters, some neighbors on Lamson Street, and Doug did, by client, at my client's instruction, did take that mezzanine level off, which is reflected in sheet A0, A0, and considered on the roof level. Unlike the other four buildings, the other four units, there is no mezzanine level. With respect to zoning, we do a violation for lot size, for FAR, the FAR here, maximum is 1.0. We are at 2.45. We have a usable open space violation, but we did try to provide some usable open space in this very tightly developed neighborhood by means of the roof decks. And I think I can say that most, if not all, of the neighborhood people in attendance, certainly the on-site meeting thought that the roof decks were a good idea to, in fact, try to provide some... And those were all hatch access? They are accessed by the mezzanine because there is a mezzanine level. So it's actual living space with access out onto a roof deck. Is the mezzanine really a floor called a mezzanine just because it's one third full of the other? Well, it's open to the floor below by code definition. Is it, I understand it, but is it really a floor? It's a room? Is it 35 feet? What's the zoning requirement? It is 35 feet. Building is...no, that's a violation. Right, but a mezzanine wouldn't count towards building height if it's less than 1 third of the area of the floor located below. No, but it is a living space. And we have not tried to say that it's not a living space. Each mezzanine level contains approximately 148 square feet, again, to try to provide some additional living space for the units. So, and a previous life of living public penthouse for you on the other side? Well, again, I think mezzanine because it is a building code term, penthouse doesn't really mean anything legally, whereas mezzanine does. Other violations, front yard violation, which seemingly is always cited even though it's a modal, correct? Side yard. Again, cited even though my understanding of the code is that buildings that are connected on the sides, don't have a side yard requirement. The townhouse uses them allowed in this district. Well, they are strictly not...they're townhouse style, which is what I said. I'm not using the actual legal zoning terms of townhouse style because there are not three or more lots. The rear yard depth, there is a violation. And again, but we're matching essentially what is there. And that's about it, El. Titus 35 feet to the roof line, not including the mezzanine level. I know it's just the mezzanine to that. Mezzanine has how much dug? Nineteen. Nineteen feet. Again, for a very small portion of each unit towards the rear of the buildings. Yeah, the best, I like to be. There's a lateral elevation at 0 to A2.02, which shows just how fact and small, in fact, the mezzanine level is. And if you look at the man-side treatment on the right side of that particular drawing, that is the lambs in court side. So that's why I say the mezzanine, including a small roof deck, next to the mezzanine, are well to the rear of the building. Is there parking on that side of the street? There is no parking. There's supposed to be no parking at all on lambs in court. Some people do, in fact, park cars there directly across lambs in court from this site. In fact, when we had the meeting on site, it was brought to our attention that somebody had applied or was in the process of putting a garage to car a lot across the street. So basically, there should be no impact there with cars. There shouldn't be cars parked at all. There have been some. But across the street from this building, there is, in fact, a garage being proposed. Let me start with your driveway. I mean, try again. A curb cut and a parking lot. So how do we prevent the street from now getting this new view of garage doors rather than actual living space? Well, a couple of the streets. A couple of the doors, again, will be, won't be facing any other residents. I mean, there's not much of a solution here, better solution than doing ground floor garage doors because of the size, the dimensions of the site, and the fact that it's a fronting onto a very narrow court. So to answer the question, I guess the only way that it could be mitigated would be through a design review with the BBDA to give the impression that maybe this is not a line of garage doors. So creative means to provide folk glazing. Yes. Okay. The access, the drawing is around the access to the garage. It's right at the intersection of Lampson Street and Lampson Court. No, the access to the garage is all off Lampson Court. There's all over. Where's that? The corner of Lampson Court and Lampson Street. There's one unit on the corner, but the garage door and entrance to the units are Lampson Court. Well, the curb cut is over in a lot of lines. That's where the access is. Yeah, on the site, I'm going to get the site plan. Yeah, you have the site plan, but many sets don't have the site plans. But the curb cuts would be on Lampson Court. That's right. It's about a 30 foot wide curb site. Well, we could do it a number of ways. We could stop, stop and start. Sometimes they want a four foot gap. We can do, I think, 30 feet of a sloped sidewalk. Depending on the location and of the garage doors. Because some do put to each other. And, Miss Grant, you said there's no parking on Lampson Court. So if the car is coming in around, don't they want to make that turn? There's no legal parking on Lampson Court. But I mean, the answer is yes. It's an adequate. It's an adequate width to end vehicles in and out. Any questions from the board? I need anyone here to speak in support of this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the Board of Quality, Career and the Mayor's Office of Nabilist Services. We would like to go and record and support. We held the NABADIS made it on site. The main concerns from the ABADIS were construction periods. We asked the developers continue to work with the ABADIS during construction. And please notify them at the time when construction is about to start. Also, they presented to the Jafry's Point neighborhood association during the first meeting they made changes. Further requests that went back to the second meeting and made changes again. But at this point, we're definitely in support of this proposal. Thank you. Thank you. If anybody here to speak in opposition, may I have a motion please? If you make a motion, just grant the relief requested with the PGA design review. And I'd like Boston Transportation to take a look at the access into the first apartment garage. I'll turn on the motion. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries without those provisos. Thank you. We have one case to go back to 1030. But I'm going to call 1130 cases. Are there any deferrals or withdrawals for 1130? Padre, is mine? 11. For the record calling, BOA 585-221-11 Lafayl Street. Name and address for the record please. Good morning, my name is my phone at 204 address. We're going to test the mass of 021-222. Could please tell us what you're requesting? We plan to the Sent Mark Association meeting and they request that to come back. And is that based on significant changes in the plan or what? No, I just want to make sure that the property owner won't turn the additional leave-it space into the base and has a lot of unit. Okay, and when I anticipated to go back? To all the days we don't have the schedule yet, but I would request that we can come back here in March. Mr. Las, deferral you had? Make a motion for deferral. I'll second that. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? The date, please? The date is March 14th. Thank you. That was the plan. Are there any other deferrals or withdrawals? I'm going to go back to a 1030 case. So originally made a motion for denial about prejudice. We would send that motion. The proponent was here. Unfortunately, it was outside. It could not hear. So we are going to call on the 1030 case. 930. I'm sorry, 930 case. The bill is 6364438 William Street. This is a change actually from a community center to legalize an existing three residential unit, constructing a new vertical, rare one-story addition on top of an existing one-story rare construction, and constructing a new roof deck and renovate the entire building. The violation of the Article 50 section 29, the floating air ratio is excessive, and the section 43, the last viewpocking, is insufficient. Name and address for the record please. Yes, hi. My name is Peter Vanco, architect working on behalf of Urban Corps Development. There's a question on if you have plans in front of you for this project. Do you have anything there for us? We do here in a presentable format. No, please take that off. Please bring that forward. In the meantime, you go ahead and tell us what the proposal is. Excellent. We actually have two projects in front of you. I just want to clarify, 38 Williams and 40 Williams. They are running as two separate ALTs. They have the same ownership. I want to clarify if we are talking about both of them here at the same time. We are not. We are not. Okay. We will proceed them with the survey. Should this be deferred until we are looking at them comprehensively because we do not like to look at projects individually, and we would like to understand the cumulative impact on the community. Certainly understand that. I think that the impact of the proposal. I don't think this is going to be a bad idea. We don't have any. We believe that there was a mistake at ISC. We have a refusal letter that was given to us yesterday that says in the purpose that the application is filed with the proposal. We have a proposal letter that is filed with 48 Williams concurrently. We have both. This is different from the refusal letter that we received by mail. We actually do have two versions of refusal letter. Are these additional violations in the one you got yesterday? No. This does state that 40 is essentially associated with it. How would the plans, do they clarify that this is a combined project? Well, I mean, it's drawn together, but it identified the 40 Williams and the 38 Williams. What is the community center? Is that 38? Is that 30? It's 38. That's correct. That's correct. Now, that has been functioning as a multi-family dwelling for decades. We understand that there were permits filed in the 80s that made a conversion to multi-family. Those were never converted over. Essentially, this whole block is a row house block. It's three-story brick. It's a community center would not have probably been an appropriate use for that block. It's a multi-family row house. The problem I'm having is that I'd like to figure out a way to address both parcels at the same time so that there's not future confusion. That is the only reason why I'm thinking that this should be deferred so that it's caught up and you're filing one decision, one comprehensive. Yes. So that when this project goes to be a sale or anything else, there's not any confusion down the road about the relief that was received on it. Absolutely. Let's go ahead with the deferral and we'll have a catch up with 40. Absolutely. Thank you so much for that. Just think in the long run it probably will serve you better. That works for us. There's a motion for deferral. Is there a second? Yes, actually. All those in favor? Hi. Any opposed? And we will re-advertise them together. Okay, Matt? Yes, I'm okay. Okay. So we will take a 10-minute break. And just for everybody who is here, there are four cases, one in Ward 17, two in Ward 6 and one in Ward 3. We will hear those cases first before we go to the case for Ward 20. So the applicant here for 89 Claiboran Street should come to the table and be prepared to present. Okay, so the meeting is adjourned for 10 minutes. We will hear those cases first before we go to the table and be prepared to present. We will hear those cases first before we go to the table and be prepared to present. We will hear those cases first before we go to the table and be prepared to present. We will hear those cases first before we go to the table and be prepared to present. We will hear those cases first before we go to the table and be prepared to present. We will hear those cases first before we go to the table and be prepared to present. We will hear those cases first before we go to the table and be prepared to present. We will hear those cases first before we go to the table and be prepared to present. We will hear those cases first before we go to the table and be prepared to present. We will hear those cases first before we go to the table and be prepared to present. We will hear those cases first before we go to the table and be prepared to present. We will hear those cases first before we go to the table and be prepared to present. We will hear those cases first before we go to the table and be prepared to present. We will hear those cases first before we go to the table and be prepared to present. We will hear those cases first before we go to the table and be prepared to present. We will hear those cases first before we go to the table and be prepared to present. We will hear those cases first before we go to the table and be prepared to present. We will hear those cases first before we go to the table and be prepared to present. We will hear those cases first before we go to the table and be prepared to present. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning And the Yupers floated all along. We will also take all the button to users. We will also notice that enforcement art is being West Broadway and on that project Mr. Pazani has recused himself. After that we'll take any deferrals and then we'll move to the cases and the other wards before going toward 20. Okay. So Mr. Fortune. Thank you Madam Chair. So for the record calling POA 616-423-482-West Broadway. This is to combine lots to forming new lots containing 9,477 plus square feet. Direct a new five story building with ground floor commercial space, 21 dwelling units on floors 2 to 5 and garage parking for 25 vehicles. This is to be known as 478-484-West Broadway. The violations Article 57 Section 26, our street parking requirement is insufficient. Article 57 Section 26, our street parking requirement is insufficient, our street parking requirements. Article 57 Section 11, multi family dwelling units is a conditional use. Article 57 Section 12, minimum usable open space is insufficient. Article 57, minimum rail you had requirement is insufficient. Article 57 Section 12, the floating air ratio is excessive. Article 57 Section 12, the maximum building height is excessive. Article 57 Section 26, our street loading is insufficient. They may not address further record please. I have the new Madam Chair. Members of the Board, my name is George Moranci. I'm the attorney with the business address of 350-West Broadway and Salt Boston. I'm joined by Bill Pachette, the project architect. Madam Chair, members of the Board, this is an application to consolidate a number of parcels owned by my client in the Perkins Square area of Salt Boston. To familiarize members with the site in particular, it is the location currently of Perkins supply, plumbing supply business owned and operated by my client. Also, there is Schubert's there, which contains a Duncan-Donuts satellite operation. To the rear on the Dorchester Street side there is an existing curb cut and a parking lot and delivery and pick up area for Perkins supply, the plumbing supply company. The application would be to demolish the existing buildings into a recta-new five-story building containing under the revised plans submitted to the Board today. 18 dwelling units with ground floor commercial space served by 21 below grade off street parking spaces. The original application was for 23 units and 23 spaces. This is an article 80 small project that was approved by the Boston Redevelopment Authority Board of Directors on November 17th. The building is as designed, would be conformed with prevailing densities along West Broadway. This is a very prominent intersection where Dorchester Street intersects with West and East Broadway. Duncan Square is sort of the heart of South Boston and this is a prime site right in the middle of Perkins Square that's currently being underutilized. What's being proposed here is a distinctive anchor building for this corner. We went through a community process meeting with a butters meeting also with the West Broadway. We took all of their comments into concern and did make a number of changes including as I said reducing the number of units. There was also a major change made with respect to the architectural design of the building. The building as originally proposed was a more modern looking structure. It was a clear sentiment in the community that folks wanted to see a building that harkened back to some of the older buildings. This older early 20th century late 19th century buildings on West Broadway. The result is something that looks just has a brick beside, decidedly more ornamental than was originally proposed. This was met with a great deal of support by the community when the revised plans were presented. In terms of the building particulars, the site first is 9,477 square feet would be a five-story building. The height would be 51 feet 4 inches. It would be virtually an exact alignment with the centa and air bank building to the immediate left. Building heights along Broadway vary from some older single story structures, commercial structures to many new buildings that are in excess of 60. This building we believe is appropriate to what the scale should be here in Perkins Square. Of the 18 residential units, six would be one bedroom units and 12 would be two bedroom units. The FAR would be 3.59. But again, as I said, I think the site here calls for a substantial building because it is a very important major intersection in South Boston. With that, I'll pause and take any questions that the board may have either on process or on zoning and Bill Pakeh is here to answer any particular questions about details of the building and the building program. This is a neighborhood shopping district. It is. This is an NS under the old article 57. Under new zoning, it would be MFR, multifamily residential, slash local service. In the NS, the ground floor retail isn't allowed use. Exactly, and I forgot to put that on the record that there's a little over 40, almost 4200 square feet of subdividable commercial space. It would be located on the first floor. Currently, the entire first floor of the building is already a commercial space. How many of these units, again, would be affordable? We are at 18 units, which means that there would be two affordable. Okay. And what are the sizes, the range of sizes for the one bedroom and two bedrooms? The one bedroom units range from 880 square feet and the two bedrooms range from 1,000 to 1,600 square feet. Thank you. And is the other roof deck, so is? The top floor, the fifth floor is pulled back away from the building to create decks for those units. So those three units have roof decks, but it's not on top of the highest roof. How are the plasms, Mr. Arleck? The drawings are more than that. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the board, John Ellison, Mayors Office of Neighborhood Services. This has been through a BRA community process. As the proponents mentioned, they have made several changes mainly to the design of the building and the number of units, so we'd like to go on record and support. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Is anybody here in opposition? May I have a motion, please? Motion to approve. PDDA design review. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Calling BOA 608-954-89 Claiborne Street. This is building a 20 by 20 square foot two-car garage attached to the house in the main entrance overhead by 12 by 8, which also needs an exit door. Violation at Article 9, Section 1. Gradually three-failure home located in the two F sub-district, Article 9, Section 1. Extension of a nonconforming use to extend living space into the basement area in the two F sub-district. Article 65, Section 9, insufficient front yard setback. I'm sorry, is this the Claiborne Street? Yes, it is. Are you going to request a deferral? Yes, ma'am. Sorry, sorry to sput you. Okay. May I add your sort of record please? Vargas Dussel, Vari 89, Claiborne Street. Request the note deferral. It's there. May I have a motion? Motion to defer her. Is there a second? Second. All those in favor? Aye. Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. In anticipation of your reappearance, we're going to ask for all the files on the previous appeals that have been served. May I have a date please? We're looking at February 28th. Okay, we'll see you February 28th at 11.30. Thank you. Calling the next case, calling. BOA 588-115-1824-20000. Moving forward? Okay. This is demo-existing building and building new three-family dwelling. The violation is Article 14, Section 14-2. Lodd area for additional dwelling units is insufficient. Article 15, Section 1. The floor to the area ratio is excessive. Article 16, Section 1, the height is excessive. Article 17, Section 1, usable open space is insufficient. Article 18, Section 1, minimum front yard requirement is insufficient. Article 19, Section 1, minimum side yard requirement is insufficient. Article 20, Section 1, minimum radio setback requirement is insufficient. And Article 29, Section 4, G pod applicability. Name and address further records please. You have the new madam chair, members of the Board, minutes Jewish Mariance, and I turn you into business address of 350 West Broadway and South Boston. I'm joined by my clients Stuart Malali, who is proposing a three-unit building at 1824 Columbia Road in South Boston. Madam Chair, I want to put on the record first what I think is most important to owe into the fact that my client has been working very extensively with the direct butter here and has actually come to agreement with the butter on making a couple changes to plans that are not reflected on the plans the Board has in front of it, but they are changes with respect to decks. So I think that they can be handled by appropriate provisos in the decision if the board were to approve this. So the plans that the Board is looking at now do reflect the fact that the building had already been set back nine feet from original application. Does Mr. Ehrlich have those plans? Mr. Ehrlich has. They're in front of me, I apologize. So I have a one set from Mr. Ehrlich and one set from myself, I apologize. So this reflects the only change from what Mr. Ehrlich is looking at and what the Board may have probably possibly seen prior to today is that the building has been set back nine feet in the front. That was an adjustment made earlier pursuing to the ongoing community process. Since that change was made and just very recently too late in fact to get the drawings updated is my client has agreed to take off all rear roof decks. We are rear decks, I'm sorry, rear decks and what we would ask for again if this were to be approved for that to be a proviso that there be no rear decks allowed. And the other change which my client agreed to would be taking the existing roof deck, there's one deck dedicated to the use of unit three and that roof deck will be pulled forward on the building towards towards Columbia Road. Yes and towards the elevator headhouse to get it away from as much as possible in a butters property. And we would like to do that through if it were approved to be our design review process. The concern would be moving it as far to the front as could be done without triggering a new violation. I don't see that we would trigger a violation for a roof deck. And this is subject to G-POT. This is subject to G-POT? I'm sorry. Yes so just keep that in mind and the location of that deck. Exactly we'll need to work with the parks department on that as well. I have to access to the roof deck. Access to the roof deck is from unit three only. Is it a hatch? That's a staircase. It's a staircase. Yeah it's a staircase to a headhouse. Okay. Please now address the violations. I guess the height. What's the violation on the height? So on the... What's the contact switch? The hard part is really on. In the meantime, how will the plans Mr. Arle? The right track would be. So the height limit violation was under the current hour point eight zoning which is 35 feet two and a half stories. This building is going to be just... Yeah around 36 feet under 40 feet which would be allowed actually under new article 68. The FAR again and in hour point eight is point eights. We have an FAR violation under article 68. It would be 2.0. The proposed FAR here is approximately 1.2. Okay. And so this is a three family. Any questions on board? Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the board, John Allison, mayors, office of neighborhood services. We would like to go on record and support as the proponents mentioned. They have worked with their butters and we'd like to echo their request for those provisos dealing specifically with the DEX and setbacks to be included in the decision of the board. So I would like to take a little bit to approve the project. I'd also like to note we did receive a letter raising some concerns from the city point neighborhood association. I believe they also sent it to the board but I just wanted to put that on the record as well. Begin we are going on record and support with those provisos. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Paul Sullivan. I would like to thank you for the support that we have with the neighbors as well as the fact that this project would now comply with the new zoning laws. The council would like to go on record and support. Thank you. Are you in support, sir? Maybe. Maybe. Okay. Your name and address? My name is Robert Bollacevich and I live at 18. I live at 18. 30. 32 Columbia Road. The direct about us. We have worked with Mr. Malale over the last several months and from his hotline in the beginning of no changes. He has come a long way and I think we can live with the provisions, with the plans that have submitted today. If they are held to that, I believe we can support it. Okay. Thank you. Is anybody here in opposition? May I have a motion, please? Motion to approve with the proviso have no... The rear decks to be removed? The R.A. Disarm Review and we will wait for new plans that show the four signatures that show those. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Calling BOA 615645278-284 North Street. This is to correct an existing occupancy from four to 17 apartments. It's a complete renovation of 17 apartments with no MEPs, sprinkler, and electrical and plumbing throughout. The violation is Article 54, Section 10, usable open spaces and sufficient, Article 54, Section 18, structure and building high restriction, Article 54, Section 21, boss feet parking, position, name and address for the record please. Thank you Madam. She is members of the board. My name is Daniel Tascano, Lawyer Office of Drago in Tascano located at 15 Broad Street, Suite 610, Boston, Mass. To my immediate right is the General Contract, Anthony Virgileo, to my far right is the owner Colin Yip. And we have the architect and also turning Mad at Echo here who did some considerable research on this matter and Ben Wyther from KVA Architects. This is to confirm the occupancy of existing property as 17 residential units and two commercial spaces. And in nutshell, this is three properties on one tax fossil. As you'll see from the photos that we've provided you the... Council? I'll take this letter from the instructional services department. Tell me then why you're here. I'll pass that on. Yes, so tell us why you're here exactly. In 2002, a permit was issued incorrectly. I sat with Gary Mosher and Harry McGon in the last week and we all agreed that the permit was issued incorrectly. When the contractor filed the permit, he put 278. He never put the full range address on it. So what went through was one building. And it was incorrectly done and it may have been the computers may have been done or made them by hand, but we're full agreement that that's what happened. He issued the letter. I'm glad you have the letter. And there also I have for maybe Mr. Erlican Anthony. There are some pictures here of the services to the building all coming in in one room. So that shows that the property is all one address. So the entire address 278 to 284 will have 17 units. 17 residential units in two commercial spaces. And this has been a use that's been in place for... Well, maybe a hundred years or so. Has tax the such? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. One tax possible. Yes. Okay. That's taxed 17 units. Yes. And two commercial. That's correct. Okay. So that clarifies it. So this is really to confirm the occupants. That's correct. Okay. So may I have a motion to that effect? Motion to grant the relief requested. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. We've confirmed that. Good. Go ahead. In regards to the zoning violations, I think, but confirming the occupancy, I believe it would take the two violations for off-street parking and the open space really off the table. So in regards to the last violations, the roof structure, what we are doing, we made the building fully sprinkled, and we put the condenses on the roof. That's what created the violation. And we have a second relief for the condenses on the roof. Yeah. Candle, I mean, the reason that you were deferred to the last one, was there was a confusion as to whether or not you were going from four to 17 units sizes were inappropriate. Correct. It's clear that there's a simple confirmation of that, which is obviously in the way of its barricades. Absolutely. Correct. So we are approving the appeal then. Okay, we have a motion to that effect, just so we're dotting our eyes and crossing the teeth. I'd like to make a motion to grant a relief request. Thank you. Second. All those in favor? All right. Any opposed? Motion carries. Madam Chair, I'm good. Good work. Thank you. And see you in the new year. Now, we have, thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Welcome back to the general public who is here for the next case. We have been informed that the technical crew in the back will need to switch the tapes. So we will resume as soon as that's done. In the meantime, may I have the applicant on at the table, please? I noticed that there is a request. A request to film part of this. If you guys can just move up a little bit so that the people at the podium have the comfort of speaking there. And let's see. Mr. Pardon? Don't have the case. Okay, so we will take a five minute break, because I think that's all it's going to take for the technical crew in the rear. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. The zoning board of appeal is back in session for Tuesday, December 13th. Just a reminder, again, take the conversations outside of the room. Thank you. Please make sure all your cell phones are off. I think it should give us a new perspective or new information. Let's just make sure that it's focused on the project that it does not get personal, because all we are looking at is the project before us. I'd like to hear from five people in support, five people in opposition. I want it equal. I want to hear from the committee. I want to hear from the committee. I want to hear from the committee. I want to hear from the committee. I want to hear from the committee. I want to hear from the committee. I want to hear from the committee. I want to hear from the committee. I want to hear from the committee. I want to hear from the committee. I want to hear from the committee. I want to hear from the committee. I want to hear from the committee. I want to hear from the committee. I want to hear from the committee. We will hear from you. Thank you very much. Madam Chair, what I will be doing is calling to the record. I have to go through the whole process. Hopefully I don't lose my voice. I'm losing it. Be with me. We've been here very early ourselves. and then call each one for the refusal and violations. Calling BOA 606484, 64 to 64 C, Allendale Street. BOA 606486, 66 to 66 C, Allendale Street. BOA 606487, 68 to 68 B, Allendale Street. BOA 606488, 70 to 70 B, Allendale Street. BOA 606489, 72 to 72 B, Allendale Street. BOA 606490, 74 to 74 B, Allendale Street. This is for 64 to 64 C. New addition of an existing building. Change opportunity from a single family to a four family. This is to be one of six buildings on the same lot. The violation of Article 56, Section 39, Austria-Pokking in front yard is not allowed. Article 56, Section 40.1, minimum front yard depth is insufficient. Article 56, Section 40.1, 2. Dwelling to the side of another dwelling dimensional requirement. Article 56, Section 7, four family dwelling unit is a forbidden use. Article 56, Section 7, dwelling units in the basement is a forbidden use. Article 56, Section 8, maximum floor ratio has been exceeded. Article 56, maximum number of stories has been exceeded. Article 56, maximum building height has been exceeded. Article 56, minimum usable open space per dwelling unit is insufficient. Article 56, minimum side yard width is insufficient. Article 56, Section 8, main entrance is required to face the front lot line. Article 56, Section 8, minimum front yard depth is insufficient. Article 56, Section 8, minimum frontage is insufficient. This is for 66, 66 C, Allendale Street, erect a four unit townhouse building. This is to be one of six buildings on the same lot. The violation is Article 56, Section 40.1, minimum front yard depth is insufficient. Article 56, Section 40.1, 2. Dwelling to the side of another dwelling dimensional requirement. Article 56, Section 7, four unit townhouses is a forbidden use. Article 56, Section 8, maximum floor ratio is exceeded. Article 56, maximum number of stories has been exceeded. Article 56, maximum building height has exceeded. Article 56, minimum usable open space per dwelling unit is insufficient. Article 56, minimum side yard width is insufficient. Article 56, Section 8, minimum ratio depth is insufficient. Article 56, Section 8, main entrance is required to face the front lot line. Article 56, Section 8, townhouse building on a lot. She'll have a minimum frontage on a street, not less than much, such minimum lot width. Article 56, Section 8, minimum front yard depth is insufficient. This is for a 68 to 68 B, Allendale Street. This is to erect a three unit townhouse building. This is to be one of six buildings on the same lot. The violation is Article 56, Section 40.1, 2. Dwelling to the side of another dwelling dimensional requirement. Article 56, Section 40.1, 2. Dwelling to the rear of another dwelling. Article 56, Section 7, three unit townhouses of forbidden use. Article 56, Section 8, maximum floor area ratio has been exceeded. Article 56, maximum number of stories has been exceeded. Article 56, maximum building height has been exceeded. Article 56, minimum front yard depth is insufficient. Article 56, Section 8, minimum usable open space per dwelling unit is insufficient. Article 56, Section 8, townhouse building on a lot. This shall have a minimum frontage on the street, not less than such minimum lot width. And Article 56, Section 8, minimum side yard width is insufficient. This is for a 70 to 70 B, Allendale Street. This is to erect a three unit townhouse building. This is to be one of six buildings on the same lot. The violation is Article 56, Section 40.1, 2. Dwelling to the rear of another dwelling. Article 56, 40.1, 2. Dwelling to the side of another dwelling as a dimensional requirement. Article 56, Section 7, three unit townhouses. If it been used, Article 56, Section 8, maximum floor area ratio has been exceeded. Article 56, maximum number of stories has been exceeded. Article 56, maximum building height has been exceeded. Article 56, Section 8, minimum front yard depth is insufficient. Article 56, Section 8, minimum usable open space per dwelling unit is insufficient. Article 56, Section 8, townhouse building on a lot. She'll have a minimum frontage on a street, not less than the minimum width. Almost there folks. This is for 72 to 72 B, Allendale Street. This is to erect a three unit townhouse building. This is to be one of six buildings on the same lot. The violation is Article 56, Section 40.1, 2. Dwelling to the side of another dwelling dimensional requirement. Article 56, Section 40.1, 2. Dwelling to the rear of another dwelling. Article 56, Section 7, three unit townhouses. If it been used, Article 56, Section 8, maximum floor area ratio has exceeded. Article 56, Section 8, maximum number of stories has been exceeded. Article 56, Section 8, maximum building height has been exceeded. Article 56, Section 8, minimum side yard width is insufficient. Article 56, minimum really depth is insufficient. Article 56, Section 8, main entrance is required to face the front lot line. Article 56, Section 8, townhouse building on the same lot. The minimum frontage on the street, not less than the minimum width. Article 56, Section 8, minimum front yard depth is insufficient. Article 56, Section 8, minimum usable open space for dwelling unit is insufficient. For the last one, for 74 to 74 B, Allendale Street. This is to erect a three unit townhouse building. This is to be one of six buildings on the same lot. The violation of Article 56, Section 412, dwelling to the side of another dwelling. It's dimensional requirement. Article 56, Section 40.12, dwelling to the rear of another dwelling. Article 56, Section 7, three unit townhouses. If it been used, Article 56, Section 8, maximum floor area ratio has been exceeded. Article 56, maximum number of stories has been exceeded. Article 56, maximum building height has been exceeded. Article 56, minimum usable open space for dwelling unit is insufficient. Article 56, Section 8, minimum front yard depth is insufficient. Article 56, Section 8, minimum area depth is insufficient. Article 56, Section 8, main entrance is to be required to face the front lot line. And Article 56, Section 8, minimum side yard width is insufficient. And Article 56, Section 8, townhouse building on a lot. I'll have a minimum frontage on the street, not less than the minimum width. I'm going to add you a further record please. Good morning, excuse me, good afternoon. Madam Chair, members of the board. Don Wies with the Dean Torpey, law firm 745 at Lance Gavanew. Here in Boston with me is the principal of Wonder Group, the developer, Jacqueline Nunes, the resident of Seven Hill, and Beth Whitaker, who is the lead designer with Merjarche text. So please tell us what's been proposed. This is a residential project on an approximately two acre site at the border between West Roxbury. To make a plan, it's across from Faulkner at Hospital. The concept is to create an 18 unit project. There will be 14 new construction townhouses at the site. There's an existing house that will be converted into four condominiums, for a total of 18 units. There's an ample parking at the site, there are 38 units. And what is unique about this project is that it aims to be the city's first net zero neighborhood. So we have a bunch of violations and a bunch of addresses here. So at the 64 address, that still remains one family to a four family. That's correct. Where did the reductions occur on the rest, on which other addresses? That do you want to address that? It's at the bottom of the site. Sure. So if you turn to... Just give us a number because I'm looking at 66 as a proposed four family. Sure. 68 is three family. That's right. So what's changed is the clusters at the base of the hill at the bottom of the plan. We've gone from six units to clusters of three units each to one cluster of four units. So what would happen is we would... That would become 72 and we would drop the 74. We entirely eliminate 74. That's right because we don't have that building. We went from five new buildings for calling the buildings these clusters to four. So at 72, how many units are there? They're four. Four. At 70, there's still three, 68. That's still three. Correct. Okay. And still four at 66. Okay. So let me have a motion for denial of 606 490, please. So moved. Second. Is there a second? Second. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Okay. So that is removed from the conversation. So now address the 64 to 72. First I'd like to talk about is 64. This is a conversion from a one to a four family. What I'd like you to address is the basement dwelling unit? Sure. Absolutely. So just FYI, I passed around two sets of the actual ISD sets so that you can turn to the drawing. It's right at the front of the set. I believe it's the third sheet N is addressing that property 64. And if you look at the section, I realize a small, I apologize. The only section. Page is that? This is A1.1. It's the third sheet. Not in the color set that I gave you. I'm sorry, there are only a couple of sets of the actual ISD plans. But you have them from ISD. So? I have an extra if the board member. Yeah. Is there a link to share? I can pass that by extra. Well, at that we have a bind with the green support letters of what is passing today. We don't need the binder. We just need that. Thank you. So, sorry, what was the number again? Sure. It's A1.1, but it's at the front of the drawing set. A1.1. And that's addressing the existing home that we're renovating and putting an addition on to convert to four condos. So the basement units are, if you look at the plans, and again, I apologize they're quite small. They are showing the ground floor plan, which is right here, is basically showing those so-called basement apartments. And you'll see that all of the glass is facing a walk out condition for those units. So they actually get quite a bit of light and air. And the part that is nestled into the grade has some higher windows, but it's mainly storage. So the bedrooms, both bedrooms and the living space for that basement unit are full height walk out spaces. And you can see that in the section, which is the, there's a typical section here drawn. There's just one section on the sheet. And the back elevation of that basement condo is the lower left elevation shows that lowest unit, which is showing a lot of sliding glass. So it's a full height walk out space. So what we did is we utilized the part that's nestled into the, into grade where it slopes up as storage space. I notice the floor to ceiling height there. The floor to ceiling height, I believe, is eight feet. Eight feet. Eight feet. And tell us about the unit sizes. The unit sizes are, there's a 1908, a 1566, a 1663, and a 223. 30 square feet. And I'm sure one point about the basement unit. This, we were on the fence about whether to apply for that variance because we're very close to the calculation of not actually needing relief as a basement unit, but because it's early in the design. So it's excited. I'm, I'm asking. Yeah. The other question that I have is on the parking, was there front, front yard parking? That's correct. There are four spaces in the front of that home and two on the side. And this, no, the week from comedy at the parking? Uh, yeah, it's, it's true. It's existing. That's true. That's the existing parking condition for that home. So I don't know if that's answering the question. It's, it's very difficult. It is the existing condition and the way we're trying to treat the, the grading and also salvaging and preserving as much of the vegetation at that front corner, upper right corner plan. It's, it's very difficult to accommodate it anywhere else. It could go somewhere else. I remember my church reason on the site. The goal has been to preserve as many of those as possible at the edges of the site. Sorry. I have to just take a short break. I understand that Councillor Malley has to be elsewhere. So please, Councillor, if you could put your name and address in your opinion on the record. Thank you. Thank you, Madam Chair. And thank you through you to the members of the board for taking me out of order. I do apologize. I'm hearing that I've called started 10 minutes ago. But very briefly, I just wanted to go on record. My name is Matt O'Malley. I'm the elected city council representing primarily the neighborhoods of Jamaica, plain and West Roxbury. And I am opposed to the many variances being proposed for the 64 Allendale Street project. I recognize that this has been a contentious long issue. But at the end of the day, I don't think the trade-offs more than justify the precedence that this would set. The real threat to an urban wild in the Jamaica, plain, West Roxbury neighborhood of our city, as well as the added density. There are many, many concerns. Some you will hear from later from the director butters of the spring house, which is the retirement community, as well as countless neighbors that live around. There are more than 50 variances being sought for this project. I don't believe that that warrants what the trade-off would be. This isn't going to do much to satisfy our need for affordable housing, for real workforce housing. And I urge the board to reject these appeals. I think there is an opportunity, as I've said, all along for the community and the developers to work together to find something that satisfies both goals. But this project simply is not it. So I urge the ZBA to please not grant the 50 plus variances sought for this project at 64 Allendale. And thank you again for taking me out of turn. Okay. Please Councillor Go ahead with your presentation. Okay. Yes. So this project will be the first and that zero neighborhood. And most folks on the board are probably familiar with that term, but just to briefly summarize, these buildings are going to be super insulated. They'll take very little heat to heat in the coldest parts of winter because it will all be retained with exorbitant, draft sealed walls, goals to be energy generation on the roof of solar cells. And because of that, in a typical year, the project will actually use less energy than it requires to heat and operate. It will generate as much as it requires. Given the national election last month, this project is perhaps more timely than ever. The changes at the federal level mean that the battle against climate change is going to become even more your responsibility of the cities. This project exemplifies the mayor's climate action plan. We're very proud for that reason to rank it before you. Councillor, can you talk please about the development now? And just talk to us. Maybe it's the architect that talks to us about the layout. Are these separate lots? Are they going to be all in one lot? We all in one lot. I'll let the address in a specific design question to you. Sure. No problem. So, I think Don did a great job explaining what wet net zero is. But we're excited about this project because it's not just a local but more of a national model for residential development. Very much mid-density in what we're used to, very low-density. Certainly not high, but I understand that the site is flanked by big institutional buildings like the Spring House retirement home, Faulkner hospital, Sophia Snowplace, as well as single-family residences to the west. So that's all true. And I'd like to just address quickly, I think I was going to talk about this anyway. If you turn to page 9, you all have this booklet, the colored booklet. Page 9 shows how far we think we've come. Back up one page, forget me to page 8. That shows you the current scheme as it sits in the context with Spring House to the east and the single-family residences to the west. Turning to page 9. 9 is the initial site plan. I was not involved in this. It was a different architect back in 2014. So this has been a long discussion, let's call it. And at this point, it was a 22 unit, 20 town home, two in the existing house proposal with a big parking lot in a solar panel array overhead the parking. What we've done, if you turn to page 10, 10 is the site plan that was originally submitted to ISD. And that shows our 20 unit plan, which has four in the existing house and 16 town homes. And then if you turn to page 11, which is where we are today, it shows 18 units total, still four in the existing house and reducing it to 14 town homes. So we went from 20 town homes to 14 new town homes. Less 22 to 18. So the mass is a little complicated, but that's where we are. We went from what we have done is we have gone from a 12 foot setback on the east side that is adjacent to Spring House to a 100 foot setback, reducing it and trying to really work at the grading and the neighborhood. On the west side, we've gone from a 12 foot setback to a 64 foot setback. Again reducing the, what was five clusters of town homes to four, really taking advantage of less on the back edge, which backs up to Allendale Woods, which we have worked very hard to protect, respect and frankly celebrate with the design of this project. So let me talk about that a little bit. So the project, as I said, is flanked by kind of big institution and single family home. So it's kind of an interesting context. What we've done, if you turn to page, there's a section, check out remember. I believe it is on page 14. There's a 40 foot drop from Allendale Street, which is the front of our site to the back of the site, which is Allendale Woods, 40 feet drop. So it's a very, it's a very slope site and what we try to do is nestle these town homes the lower levels into the hillside so that it minimizes the reality of the height. It also slopes down. So each height, regardless of what it is in relation to grade, is actually hard to perceive from Allendale Street. And what we've done is with that nestling in, we've allowed that to become a series of private garages. So the cars are, most of the cars are out of sight. We have, by the way, 38 parking spaces. What we need is 1.5. So we're 11 over of what's required. And we have a combination of unit types that have single car garages, double wide garages, and a few unit types that have tandem garages. So one and two car garages. They are 2.5 to 3.5 story buildings. The lowest. Why is there a height violation then? So the height violation. As of right, it's, we're allowed 2.5 stories, 35 feet. We have some that are 3.5 stories and as high as 45 feet and as low as 34 feet. So they vary. So 40 is the highest. 44. 44 is the highest. And the zoning district for this is this conservation protection overlay district? It's a single family zoning. It's a 1F-8000 sub district. I'll look back at that. Okay. 1F-8000 and not a conservation protection. That's correct. That's a little bit about. Okay, I'm just going to pass in. The terrain of the site's unusual. I'm going to just pass a photograph that shows, besides sort of nestled below the surrounding properties, you can see it's pretty much kind of up above the site. Maybe the board members will just understand the context with that picture. Sorry, guys. That's okay. So I'll try to go through this quickly. So about the architecture. So what we did is we tried to create, they're technically town homes per code because they're joined at the base. So each cluster is joined as a building. But the way we strategized it is we have unit types that actually have setbacks on the side. So you'll see when you start to gang them and mirror them that you either have a single wide or a double wide terrace, which provides this nice gap that preserves the view from Allendale Street through the site out to Allendale Wood and allows them to feel more like single family homes, even though they're connected at the base. And it also provides these really cool shared social spaces, these outdoor balconies for the neighbors. We looked at the vernacular. There are a lot of gable roofs in the area. We thought of this as a contemporary interpretation of the gable and the slope. And so what we've done is if you look at the site plan, the buildings are actually parallel to the property line, but they're not due south. And so for the solar panel array on the roof, which wants to be due to south, we chamfered the roof line so they're asymmetrically sloped in relation to the footprint of the building, which creates this nice sort of playful take on the gable. So I think that this is not just a model for a single family house in a way to construct. And we were looking at a super robust envelope. We're looking at our values and the roof and the walls that are double what's required. But we think of it more as a sustainable approach, not a holistic approach to the site as well as the buildings, as a neighborhood, as a single family residence, as a townhouse, and for the city. Thank you. So let's see. So we talked about the front yard parking. All of them seem to have FAR violations. What is the FAR? So the required is point three. What you have is a submission for point five five, but the 18 units takes us closer to point five. It's down to point five. It's just under point five. Because this is all one lot, it's a lot wide issue. It's all the building a lot divided by the whatever. How much does the existing house contribute to the FAR? You can ask me just a math here. It's over 4,000 square feet. So that that in terms of percentage is if you extract that out. That would drop the FAR. The existing home with our addition is 78. It's existing. It's mid 4,000. It's a mid 4,000. That's right. That's right. And so let's just see. So all of them because it's essentially the townhouses, that's what causes the side yard violations. That's correct. So the height is, now tell us about the open space for dwelling unit. Why is that triggered? Well, to be completely honest with you, Madam Chair, it's hard to calculate at this site. The way is expressed. It's written as a formula. And every once in a while there's a formula in the zoning code that was intended to apply to a very clear cut site. This is clearly a planned unit developed by the equivalent of a pod in a 1F5, 8,000 zone. So I can understand it's a square page in a round hole, whatever it is. So, okay. That's correct. So roughly half the site is left open, but the way that open space is calculated, there's a formula that sets an open space requirement and then for an oversized lot you add to that requirement. And when you have a lot that is two acres and an 8,000 square foot district, you have almost 80,000 square feet of extra lot area. And when you take 25% and add that, you end up with an open space that it's very hard to meet. Okay. And this looks like it's an environmentally sensitive area. Yes. So, we have our landscape architect here. Case. And the bird dress. We can speak about that, but we've worked very hard to actually take, we're thinking about taking out invasive species that are there now and planting back in native species. I don't know if you want to speak on that. Let me address one. I think just one concern has been that there are wetlands within Aladil Woods. But then 120, excuse me, 110 acres, area preservation land, there are areas of wetlands. DEP has been out to this site twice and both the surrounding wetlands have been surveyed to see to extent they project buffer zone areas onto this site. The site itself has also been surveyed. There are no wetlands on the site. All the buildings are not only outside the buffer zone areas, but quite a bit outside the buffer zone areas so that there's no need to even go into the edge of the buffer zone for constructability. If there are more questions about the DEP review with a wetlands site, we're happy to address that we have additional materials with us. And there's one side of entry and exit. That's correct. And there will be a, there's a shared path. One goal of this community is that it not feel like a gated community. There will be no barrier to entry. There will be a clearly marked path that will go down to the trail heads at the start of Aladil Woods. So the public will be invited to come through the site and access the woods. It's a shared path on page 11. You'll see it's slightly darker gray than the roadway. And so as Don said, the idea is that it is welcoming. It's clearly marked as a paper that it's a path and it's an open path. And then it will filter down through the site back out to the woods. Let's just see. I think I've covered all the violations. How are the plans Mr. Aladil? Very good. Any questions from the board? I don't have one question. This is my application. Could you just address the actual ownership of that which is known as Aladil Woods? I mean, is it a collection of the Aladil Woods? The ownership is mixed. Part of the woods near the site is privately owned but is restricted from development. So Spring House owns some of the land near the site. Some of the woods deeper in is owned by the city. It's a mix of private and public ownership. So to what's the rear of the property? Where is that 48 foot setback? Is that where is that owned by the city of Boston? No, the 48 foot setback is privately owned by my client. No, but past that. That's owned by Spring House. So in essence Spring House property, a but this lot, that's correct. That's correct. On the side and the rear yard. That's correct. Okay. Any other questions from the board? Okay, so if anybody here is here to speak in support of this proposal, please put your name and address on the record and tell us, and put your name and address on the record and tell us why you're in support. Madam Chair, members of the board, John Allison, Mayors, Office of Neighborhood Services. We'd like to go on record and support. Thank you. Good afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the board. Chris Tracy, Senior Project Manager at the Boston Planning and Development Agency, BPDA. We'd like to go on record and support. As you know, the BPDA board approved 20 units, the 20 unit version on May 2016, and we subsequently brought it back to our board for a notice of project change in November 2016, and it was approved at our last November board. A few words on our decision making. Though this two acre site does not encroach on the Allen Dill Woods or take any land from Allen Dill Woods, has the needed zoning setback from the woods and responded to Boston Parks Department concerns, about treating stormwater on the back edge of the site. The folks who are opposed to the proposal have continued to state that the density of the project and the potential impacts on the Allen Dill Woods are a major concern to them. So to that end, BPDA staff, along with Mayor Walsh's office, once again, ask the proponent to respond to these community concerns. Therefore, they reduced the number of units to 18 total units, and they pulled the units off the back edge of the site that abut the historic Spring House, the Allen Dill Woods, and the Spring House Living Center, and the proposal before you is 18 total units, which aims to be a national model for sustainability by achieving multiple ambitious environmental goals, including being a completely net zero energy community. There is also one IDP unit on site, along with an associated contribution to the IDP fund, and it's part of a community benefits package. The proponent will be making a one-time financial contribution to the Boston Parks Department of $50,000 to be given upon the issuance of a building permit, to be given to Boston Parks and allocated towards improvements and betterment of Allen Dill Woods. Thank you. Hi, my name is Dan Janis. I live at 69 in the SEDWIC Street in Jamaica Plain, near the property. I just want to take a minute. Please, after we hear from elected officials and representative of governments, I need a maximum of five people to speak and support. There might be others in the room, but I just want to make sure that the plane field is even. Okay, go ahead. Thank you. So I live near the proposed development in Jamaica Plain. I've lived in Jamaica Plain for 19 years, and I'm a former president and board member of the Sumner Hill Neighborhood Association. And I just wanted to make a couple quick points about my take on the project. First of all, I just want to speak to some of the other work that the Wunder Group has done. I've seen a lot of it over the years. There's one development that several doors down from where I live on SEDWIC Street. And it's all very high quality, extraordinary work. And it's been sort of a progression leading up to this project, which I think was discussed, is really unprecedented in Boston and serves to be a model globally. And so the work that this developer does is really very, very positive. We have friends that live in some of their properties, and they're very pleased with them. And one of the points that I want to make, and having been to some of the hearings and heard a lot of the arguments on both sides for and against the development, is that, well, one more personal thing is that I'm an avid outdoorsman and a runner. And I spend every single morning before I go to work in the Harvard Arboretum, which is across the street, and in Allendale Woods, and on the Emerald necklace. And so being outside is very important to me as is preserving open spaces in Allendale Woods in particular. I think a lot of the discussions around this project have framed the choice as between this project happening, or no project at all. And with the implication that somehow this private lot will be left open and empty. And I just, you know, I want to say for my perspective, it seems like something is going to go on this property. And if it's not this one, which is much more complicated, much more intense, and obviously requires a lot more variances. And my understanding of what can happen on this lot, as of right, is that there's something will be built. And that in terms of being close to Allendale Woods and the views and all of the things that I think we put concerned about, an open space is not what's going to happen. And I think that a lot of genuine effort has been made to keep the access to Allendale Woods open through the spot. Thank you. Could I make one more point? Okay. Another thing that I've just been teasing out of the discussions that I've heard is citing precedent that some of the large industrial buildings that are near this have donated land to the Allendale Woods preserve. And that that has been requested from the developer. And I think that one thing to keep in mind is that some of these, in particular, that the Spring House next door is a huge piece of land. And most of it was not developed well anyway. It's a wetlands. And so that was donated to Allendale Woods with really no consequence to the builder. And just to make the point that this is a much smaller scale and that that's not really an option. So I think this is a great project. I think it's a model for Boston, a model for the country. And it's just the kind of reason that variances are part given sometimes. So I'm very much in support. Thank you very much. Thank you. Good afternoon, Madam Chairman and board members. My name is Kristen McCormick and I reside at 201, Savinhill Avenue in Dorchester. I'm a resident of Dorchester for nearly 40 years. And most of those have been involved. I've been involved in neighborhood economic development and preservation efforts including the co-founder of two community development corporations. I also spent two years as deputy director of the Boston redevelopment authority. And I've seen a lot of bad development. This is not one of those projects. In the last decade I've focused my own personal efforts on environmental sustainability, especially in urban environmental sustainability. I'm on the faculty at a local university where I teach global sustainability as well as building sustainable food systems. What brings me here today is a deep belief in the merits of this project combined with respect and admiration for the work that the Wunder Group does. Again, I've worked with many, many developers over the last 40 years. I had the pleasure of meeting the Wunder Group when I bought my own condo from them. Their dedication to quality over dollars is legend. The degree of effort that goes into thinking about the energy consumption of these projects, the design of these projects, the degree to which they are integrated with the environment is second to nothing that I have seen. I believe that this project, and please, Madam Chairman, I know you want to focus specifically on the task before you, but I don't want it to be lost before the board. The degree that this project can really serve as a blueprint and as a footprint for the city going forward. We're living an increasingly hot, flat and crowded world. The city of Boston's population is growing. The world's population is growing. The notion of one or two units on a half an acre or an acre is the antiquated and it's not possible to move forward in this world as we know it, rapidly changing. It's not possible to do anymore. This, I think, can be something that we can show to other developers when other projects come before the board and they say, well, we can't do this or we can't do that or this won't work or that won't work. You can point to this project with a great deal of pride and say, this is the future of Boston and if you want to build here, this is how we're going to do it in order for things to remain appropriately dense integrated into the environment and appropriate for the city going forward with respect. I do ask that you approve what's before you and thank you very much for your time. Good afternoon. My name is Stephen Cohen and I'm a resident at Jamaica Plain and I reside at 7 Brewer Street and I want to voice strong support for this development as well. And I do think it's important to remember that there's a context in which all of the dwellings that are built around the woods exist and that there is a relationship between this wild which is not threatened and not threatened certainly by this development and the urbanity that's around it. And the question in our city is not whether there will be more density 10 years from today or 20 years from today. We know that we are about to witness and are witnessing an influx of residents and that the city is going to be a more dense place. So the question isn't really whether there will be more density. It's really the extent to which it is sensitively expressed. This development which seeks zoning relief seeks that relief in return for a public benefit and a future benefit that's far greater. And that's ecologically it's in terms of the energy efficiency of the development and it's in terms of creating the kind of community that is quite frankly very expensive to build at this time. And if the purpose of the developer was merely to earn profit there are ways to do it which are far less groundbreaking and frankly less risky for any investor or any developer. And what's going on now is that this type of development which has not been erected in the city whatsoever is something that once it's executed in the future will become less expensive. And so we're setting a precedent that in the future could in order to our benefit as a city and allow us to accommodate the residents that are going to be moving to the city of Austin. Thank you. Hi there. My name is Janet Deegan. I live at 41 pounds circle in Mosheal and Jamaica Plain. I've lived and worked in JP for 25 years plus. And I've been watching this project from its first putt basically exposure to the public and watching it go through a process in which a lot of people had a lot of input. A lot of information was shared and accommodated through the process and we're now down to the last wire it seems which is an understandable number of variances that have to be approved in order for it to move forward. And I would concur with a number of statements that other people have made already about the care and quality that has gone into this and without a doubt it seems as though it's a project that is coming to terms with time and it would be best served by all of us if as agreed you were to approve. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the Board of Minor Affairs represent in the Carp Interest Union. On behalf of the Congress of Members of the Living Worker, I would like to go and record a support. Thank you. Are there any elected officials or representatives of elected officials here to speak in opposition? Madam Chair, members of the Board, Bruce Valar from Constellar and Larger Annam Presley's office and we'll let you go on record in a post. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the Board, just go to do a guest from the City Council at Larger Nees Society, Georgia's office and she would also like to go on record opposition. Madam Chair, members of the Board, Gary Webs there on behalf of the Boston City Council President Michele Wu, who elected on record of opposition. Madam Chair, members of the Board, Paul Sullivan, we have City Council at Larger Michael Flarey. Council like to go on record of an opposition standing with the Alan Wood-Navars, the West Roxbury community as well as the Jamaica Plain community. Okay, so, um, please, sir, in the front, um, why don't you come up, put your name and address on the record and tell us why you're in opposition. Now hold on one minute. Before we start, I want to see the lineup. I want to see how many people are we having up here? As I said before, I want five people up there. Excuse me. Will you please, are there five speakers lined up against? I want to know please who's here? Who are the elderly people who are going to speak on this project? Okay, so you're on, sir. Are you going to speak on this project? Okay, you're just making yourself comfortable. Okay. First, go ahead, please. Put your name and address and tell us what your opposition is. I'm a little deaf. Okay. I'd like to apologize to my phone going off, which you reacted to. And the reason is my wife is not well, so I never turned my phone off. Anyway, my name is William Tallow, a resident at Spring House. I was a commissioner on the zoning commission for over 10 years and feel I'm somewhat familiar with the issues we're talking about today. Number one, when it comes to zoning, I was very familiar, obviously, with the work that the commission puts in. And with the communities throughout the city, it's an unbelievable task and tone. And after all we're sitting down in West Roxbury, they zone this area for single family housing with a limit of five per acre. I think what the wonder group is asking for is an egregious extension of that that really negates zoning altogether. Beyond that, you have to understand when they ask for 18 houses or homes on two acres, that means they're going to take the two acres up with the serpentine road that flows through it. So there's no open space left for really people to individualize their homes and open space for them to provide play facilities for their children. This is an isolated area where there are no schools close by, no playgrounds. And so they have to provide some of that in their own homes or outside their own homes. I think that's a very important issue. I also think it's an important issue that the more homes they put on this property and the more serpentine the road is, it interferes with some of the natural happenings on the property, particularly the flow of water. The zoning court emphasizes, and this is in the ZBA's own bulletin, that the purpose of zoning is to judge the context of the area that the developer is going to be in and decide if that fits into that area and is appropriate for that area. Well, I think if anybody, and I hope all of you knows the Alan there, it's unique. It's beautiful. It might have been become accidental. But whatever ended up, it's an unusual area. Last week I was coming home from Cambridge in the taxi driver, never been there driving through who turns around and says to me, wow, this is beautiful here. It is nobody can deny it, although in originally discussing this with the wonder group, and I emphasize the role of Oasis this really is. It's the reason why I moved to Springhouse because I thought I was living in the country by being there. That's a wonderful area. It deserves respect by all, and especially for developers who want to develop there. I think this development in no way fits into the area. For a two-way galore that's sort of massive, I don't think it adds to the beauty of the area at all, as a matter of fact, I think it detracts with the beauty of the area. Anyway, there's been some illusionist of the reasons why they try to justify their desire for this development. Number one, in my mind, they've alluded many times to the importance of the Springhouse. Okay, what's made her be a little closer? I don't blame her. Anyway, whatever I was to, I got to catch my memory. Right. Words don't come as easily as they used to. Anyway, Springhouse cities have an obligation, I think, a moral obligation to be able to fit certain types of facilities into their borders. West Roxbury did that for Springhouse, all kinds of variances. I think what resulted was a terrific place, I love it. Thank you, Senator. Springhouse is a good neighbor. It is so that it is over a certain property to the city for the PAC department, for the, they cannot be, it's an easement which has meant any development on the property for the Allendeal Woods. Springhouse also, and I'm defending Springhouse now. Springhouse also runs a camp for children in the city in the summertime, which is wonderful. I love to see the kids. So, sir, I know you have difficulty hearing, but can we hear the next person online, please? Can I hear what? Can we listen to the next person online? Thank you very much. Thank you so much. Go ahead. Madam Chair and fellow board members, I'm Polly Selco. I've actually lived in Jamaica Plain for over 45 years at 166 Moss Hill Road, and I've been active in our neighborhood association to make a Hills Neighborhood Association for over 35 years as its president, as its vice president, and now as the co-chair of the Zoning Committee. I'm going to be as brief as possible because I know that there are other people from our coalition of groups that want to speak, but I want to tell you that they will speak on their major concerns about this development, and how it would negatively impact the unique character of Alendale Woods and the Alendale Street and the quality of life for the seniors at Springhouse, the ecosystem of Alendale Woods. But I think the biggest thing, the biggest problem is it sets a precedent for the nearby large properties, not only adjacent to this property, but in the neighborhood as a whole. The Jamaica Hills Association is a neighborhood association founded 75 years ago. Ms. Selco, can you please talk about the specific zoning? Yes, I would be happy to. Thank you. As an urban planner myself, I do believe that there should be flexibility in zoning, but it's a matter of degree. And I think with the reading of all the sections of violation you can see that this degree is greatly over what should be allowed. The Jamaica Hills Association has worked with developers for many years, and we usually can come to a compromise with developers. We are not against development of this site, but we are against the development that's proposed for this site. You know, zoning has to have some meaning, and quite frankly, a sustainable development, which is laudable, is not one of the criteria for granting a zoning variance. So we urge you to deny this with prejudice. Thank you. So let me summarize. So as far as your concerns are as representative of Jamaica Hills, is that you're opposed because of the extent of the violations as the bottom line. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, my name is Elizabeth Bowen Dunnevin. I live at 107 Allendale Street, Jamaica Plank. I am diagonally across the street from this proposed project. I have lived on Allendale Street in this house for 37 years. So I'm quite familiar with the development that has gone on during that time period. On June 16, I sent a letter, Madam Chair, to you. I think you have a packet. Okay, under tab one is the letter I sent. Now that was obviously before we have reduced the project from 28 townhouses to 18. However, that letter sets forth. All of the reasons why a zoning variance should not be granted at all on this property. I set forth for your benefit section 7-3 of the zoning code, which requires specific things to be met in order to be granted a variance. And tab five, the last two pages of tab five, propose findings for your consideration to assist you in making a determination. Now, during the presentation by the developer, you have not heard one centilla of evidence that would support a legal conclusion that a variance is warranted on this property. Not only a variance, but a youth's variance. This property is not zone for townhouses. Townhouses are forbidden use in this zoning. Single family homes, yes. And as of right, they probably can put in 405 in a subdivision just as at 100 Allendale Street in the 1980s, a subdivision went in. And after there was litigation regarding that property that the youths was to be changed to a commercial use. So the neighbor said, no, this is a residential single family neighborhood. And that is what we want to maintain. Now, I won't say much more, but there is one very important issue that no one has addressed. And that is what this developer is asking you to do. Is to violate the Constitution of the United States of America and the Constitution of Massachusetts by spot zoning this particular possible. And I respectfully request that you do not spot zone as possible that you deny the variances that requested. Thank you. Madam Chair, my name is Jacqueline Leees. And my partner and I live at 100 B Allendale Street. And there is just one property between us and the proposed project. And we have been there for 15 years. It is really hard to convey how unique this neighborhood is. It is basically a small community of family homes. On lots with lots of green space. It is surrounded by a working farm. And then Allendale Book Woods is behind. You are specifically about the zoning and whether this was a green belt. So it turns out that the Jamaica Hills side of the street is zoned as a green belt. And also NDOD, which stands for neighborhood containing a historically significant streetscape. For some reason, the West Roxbury zoning doesn't have that same designation, but it's clearly intent was for the whole street, regardless both sides of the street are zoned specifically for single housing. And it's interesting that the developer discusses that this site is sitting between a big institution and family homes. That was actually the justification for this zoning. It was put in place in the 1980s. And it was put in place when Spring House was proposed as a project. The neighborhood was very concerned about large commercial use on this site. And the agreement at that time with the city was that Spring House could go forward as long as there would be rezoning of the neighborhood. A commission was formed that included city officials and the neighbors. It actually worked for two maybe three years and put together this zoning. And basically the essential notion of the zoning is that this is a contract with the neighborhood that the large buildings, the density would stop at Spring House and that the character of the neighborhood single family housing will be maintained from that point forward. So if 64 Island Elders allowed to go forward, that basically shatters this existing contract with the neighborhood that was put forward in the 80s. So we're imposed about this project. So your concern is density? My concern is a long list density. You've talked about the FAR and that's exceeding the limit. But later to density. I'm also concerned but I would also like to point out that the non building space that they're talking about, the majority of that is actually a road. So there's almost no green space on this project except for the surrounding region. I'm worried about the height, the three and a half stories, especially about Island Elders. The tallest buildings are actually going to be on the Island Elders, overshadowing Island Elders. We're concerned about the parking in the neighborhood. They do have enough lots on the site for the housing that exists. But we're concerned that if there's even one party and people come over with cars, there is no parking on the street in that neighborhood. So people tend to park in other people's parking spaces. That's already a problem for the fault in the hospital. We're concerned about the traffic which is already terrible on that street. There's a blind drive that comes out of that with a sharp curve. And we even know they're saying they're going to increase the grade. There's a number of us live in proximity so we're most of us actually familiar with the site and with the environment. And we're concerned about the environmental impact because the buildings they're doing and affect the hydrology on the land immediately downstream which is a wetland space. We're also concerned about the president for the neighborhood so the 90 Island Elders which is between my house and 64 Island Elders is also two acres. The owner died this fall. The house is going to go on the market. So if this project is allowed, there'll be another 16, 80, 20 houses on that site. 2002, lots down from me on the other side is an even bigger lot. It's three times the size. That owner is in his 80s. So we anticipate that that will come on the market too. So if we move forward with this president, suddenly there's going to be now three housing estates in this little neighborhood. And we're going to go from currently 30 houses to 100 plus houses within this very small region. I want to say as well that I'm here representing not only my views but also the immediate butters. There is almost universal concern about people along the street. I actually, we've put together a petition asking that you hold to zoning laws. That was actually submitted. Previously, I think it's in your booklet. And the map is really the key thing which shows all of the people who oppose this project. I want to stress as well that we're not opposed to development per se. We know that there's additional buildings are going to happen on this site. We just want it to be respectful of the neighborhood, particularly to honor the single family housing. And we're particularly find the townhouse look offensive which does not fit at all within the neighborhood. I also want to note that the developers have been completely resistant to working with the community on this project. They did have a number of meetings with immediate butters that I also participated in. But all of those meetings they basically told us what was going to happen. When we raise concerns, their answer was, well, we can't change anything because we have to make a profit. So the whole thing from the beginning has been about them making money which I understand is not a reason for variance of zoning. There have also been several neighborhood meetings between 80 and 120 people have attended each of those meetings. The vast majority of people at those meetings have been opposed. We actually lost us for a hand count of the last two meetings. 110 out of 120 people were opposed at one and 90 out of 100 people at the other. So we feel that there is a very strong ground swell of opposition in the immediate neighborhood, in the broader neighborhood, that's really been ignored so far by the BPDA, the offices of neighborhood services. And we're really asking that you will stand with the residents and uphold the zoning. Thank you. The gentleman in the back, can you turn that off? Please, this is being live streamed. And these guys here did ask for permission to televised this. Now, I've heard from the Jamaica Hills Association. I've heard from Judge Bowen Donovan. And I've heard from somebody who's representing the butters. Please, I ask you that's three people I've heard from. If you guys in the back can figure out how to combine comments so that I have substantive information that will help inform our decision. Okay, because the last person did give us a list of issues, which is density, open space, height, parking, traffic, environmental impact, and precedent. So please, if you're in line, add something new. We will take one break and are you here to speak? Okay, go ahead. Good afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the board, Walter Appwhite, Councillor Tim McCarthy's office. The Councillor realises that this is District 6, but some of the residents of District 5 are encompassed within this project. And he would like to go on record as supporting the testimony of Councillor, District Councillor Maddle Malley. He's also downstairs of the hearing so he couldn't be here to testify for himself. Thank you. Thank you. Yes, please give it to Val over here. Go ahead, sir. Do you have some new information to add? Yes, I do. My name is Welschert Holton. I'm a resident of Spring House. And I've lived there five years. I like many of my neighbors. I came to Spring House because of the unique environmental setting there. I'm an environmentalist and a retired professor of urban sociology, so I'm looking at it from two points of view. What my neighbors know is that the environment as the city parts department tells us is extremely sensitive to damage. They want to put three blocks of buildings. And those aren't just individual buildings. They're on large foundations, as you know. And a Z-shaped roadway that would completely block the hydrology. And I want to add that the developer has refused to do a hydrological study of the property and the damage that would be done. In addition to the movement of water down that slope that they describe, it would probably pollute that water significantly. And no proper study of that has been done. I also want to add to correct what the developer has said. They reduced by the last iteration two units from 20 to 18, but it's only because the Boston Conservation Commission told them they had to. And in the process, they've reduced the number of affordable units by two down to one. So they don't lose it all on this. And the damage to the woods has not been described. So the main comment that you have is on the environmental impacts on the woods. Absolutely. Thank you. Hello, my name is Tony LeCasse. I'm a 35-year resident of Boston. I live on 102 Fletcher Street in New Rosendale. Your own Fletcher Street? Yes. Okay. And I consider myself a steward of the woods. I've spent probably 400 hours in there in the last five years cleaning up the woods. What I can tell you very substantially in terms of the impact environmentally on the woods is that just downslope of this, what is a self-described steep slope, is one of Boston's last two Vernal Pool sites. For people who aren't familiar with Vernal Pools, there are seasonal water bodies that are home to amphibians and are considered very critical habitats by the state's environmental protection agencies. The reason that Boston only has two sites is that they are exceptionally easy to kill. And when they are killed, they don't recover. In this particular case, we have a really unique ecological asset that Boston Parks considers this to be one of the most important ecological sites in the city. This particular developer throughout has resisted the wetlands delineation. And in fact, also has not, has refused to do a hydrological study to be able to convince us that the Vernal Pools will in fact have the flow that is necessary to go through. Just like the previous sepus, you were concerned with the high, with the environmental impacts, not only then the hydrology, but with the Vernal Pool. Vernal Pools are protected habitats under the state and the entire area of Boston, you only have two of those sites. Thank you. Second. You information? Yes. Okay. The other one is that you have 45-foot-tall buildings on a very steep slope. When prior administrations of the BRA, essentially over three mayoral administrations, assemble Allendale Woods through the addition of additional conservation easements with developers. This was asked for by this developer. It was not accommodated. This particular site will actually be visible throughout the entire eastern quarter of Allendale Woods. So what is now a secluded experience for people to come and experience, they will actually have buildings that are taller than any of the trees in the area that will be looming over that area. It will definitively and tangibly reduce the experience and value of why these woods were assembled. And that is something that we're asking the ZBA to be able to protect the legacy that was created over the pre-three prior mayoral administrations. Thank you. Madam Chair and members of the zoning board, my name is Mark Rukovina. I live at 16 Delano Park in Roslindale. I'm a member of the Spring House Communities Board of Directors. In the interest of time, I'd like to submit written comments, go on record opposing the variances for this development. And I'd like to yield my time to our attorney, Ruth Silman. Thank you. Good afternoon. Madam Chair, members of the board, Ruth Silman with Nixon Peabody representing the Spring House Board of Directors. It's not often that I'm on this side of the table. I'm usually representing the developers. And so I come with a bit of a heavy heart. We all, Spring House, and I think all of the residents and neighbors certainly are in favor of combating climate change and net zero and having beautiful buildings and places. The reason that I'm here today and I submitted a letter on behalf of Spring House dated September 19th in advance of the first hearing before the deferral is that there's certain fundamental information that has not been shared between the parties. And in doing these kinds of developments over and over again in the city of Boston, there are some basics that are missing. For example, over a year ago, Spring House requested renderings of what this project would look like from the Spring House perspective. Councillor, can you please, we know the history. We've had a lot of courage on it. Please right now just focus on exactly what the issue is right now. There's a concern about the impacts from the project and the requested variances due to the density and the impacts on the very sensitive ecological areas. And also on the Spring House is a direct-to-butter. We have a conservation restriction that was put in place. Madam Chair, you identified it. Spring House has certain obligations to protect that area and needs to ensure that it can do so. And we're in a position, as I said, it's all in my letter that where we are missing this information, therefore we cannot even make a full assessment of the potential impacts from the project. We do appreciate the reductions and pulling the development back from the wetland line and out of the buffer. But we still don't know enough about what this project could do and what its impact will be on Spring House as a direct-to-butter and on the conservation area that we are charged to protect. So in the interest of time, you've been here for a very long time. Thank you so much for giving us an opportunity to speak. Okay, so we've heard a lot of concern here. Councillor Will you please respond to the question of the environmental impact because that seemed to have popped up most frequently. And the concept of perhaps putting in a conservation restriction over part of this property. Sure. So the question has been raised about the hydrological modeling of the site. That's an important point. And we agree with that fully. What we want to say about that is, with a project like this, the expense of the final engineering studies and drawings, typically isn't done until that project is approved. If it gets through the discretion approvals process, that's one thing like the life safety systems and the buildings compliance with the mass storm water manual, which this project will be subject to. It's a, with some of the nation's most stringent storm water management requirements will be required to basically ensure that the same hydrology leaves the site as is leaving the site today. That's a state law. So we will comply with that, but that study won't be done until the project. If it is so fortunate, we fully approved, as all approvals in hand. So that's, we have explained that to our butters. It's a legit concern that we don't want to be sensitive. We're not. We share that concern. You are, you are, you are, you are confirming that there is continuing process and that there will be continuing conversations. Yes. Based on the information you are required to provide based on state and federal regulation. That's correct. We'd be more than happy to once the regulation. Yeah. And all those regulations, more than happy to meet with the neighbors to walk folks through down the road. Okay. Tell us about the concept of conservation restriction. So we had discussed that with the parks department. We had a number of concepts in the site that were changed in consultation with parks. Originally the site had bioswales at the bottom. This project has, has put an unusual focus on the landscape architecture. Kate Kennan is a national expert on what I now know is phytoremediation, which is using natural systems to cleanse stormwater. And the original plan was to have the base of the site. Some sort of furrows in the ground with collect water and then would treat it with natural plants and then release it over time. Parks. We also talked about having a conservation easement along the bottom 40 feet of the site. Parks did not ask us for a conservation easement. They didn't want to maintain this land. They understood that we would not develop it. And without putting words in their mouth, it's our understanding that that that was an acceptable solution to them versus a conservation easement. Will there be a deep restriction placed at the registry? There will not be. We were, we had a specific discussion about that with parks and they were not interested in going that route. But a restriction on your park that that will be maintained. If, if it is a concern, we will maintain the entire site and the bond site will not be developed and we're happy to commit to that. And if, if there is a, a greater level of commitment that would be helpful, we're happy to make that commitment today. If, if we, we're happy to place a deed restriction that will say that the bottom 40 feet of the site is not a development area. We will have to maintain it just to be clear. And the construction management. What's your plan to maintain the integrity of the site during construction? So the several things. One is because of the strength of Massachusetts environmental laws, we have a very well developed infrastructure here in the state of doing work near wetlands. And we'll be following all appropriate techniques to ensure that the wetlands protection act protections are followed. And, hopefully, that means making sure that erosion sediment does not make it out of the construction site down into the, down into the wild. And that's going to be a chief goal of this project. It's a well-interested methodology. You know, folks use hay bales and salt fences, things like that. And the second thing that's important is the project has been moved over time as we have studied the site further away. And so it is well outside any buffer zone. So it's a combination of distance from sensitive areas and construction methodologies. Frankly, this site has attracted cement risk. There are hundreds of supporters of this project. There are some passionate skeptics as well. And we are interested from our perspective because there are all variances being sought and we just need to understand the extent of the commitment to maintaining that property and that environment. That's correct. You know, one group proposed this as a net zero project in the first iteration. This was not a compromise made to get support. The vision for this project has always been a very ecologically sensitive one. That was the opening proposal. It was not a change made to win support from the beginning. She has had a leading architect, a leading landscape architect. A lot of the design work has gone in this project more than certainly I've seen on a project this scale. And we expect that the project will be watched carefully. In fact, we're proposing as a model. And for that reason, we welcome folks watching the construction process carefully. Let me ask whether any other questions from the board that have been on it? Not so much. Unanswered. Just clarified. This issue of the hydrological study. You're suggesting that it not be done prior to a rules because of the expense that is required going forward and that you required by state law to lead the same hydrological dynamics after that you inherited prior. What is the process with I mean what happens if some state agency determines that's not the case. How does that how does that work? So the those requirements of the wetlands protection act in the stormwater requirements mass shifts. It's are going to be implemented by Boston Water and sewer. Because part of the building permit review process our engineers will need to show all the calculations to water and sewer water and sewer which is a is a well funded well staffed agency reviews these issues carefully all around Boston. We'll go through those calculations and the building permit won't be issued until the project is in full compliance. Any other questions. Now before there's a motion made and any decision made by the board. I want to remind everybody here that we have another case after this one. Okay. Our work is not done yet. So please I ask that you leave quietly so we can speedily proceed with the next case on our agenda. And given that may I have a motion please. We'll move forward that we accept the proposal with BPD a design review. Second all those in favor. Aye. Any opposed. Motion carries with that proviso and with the understanding that the applicant will continue conversations with the community. Thank you. Calling the last case on the court. We're calling BOA 509 918 9 to 11 Ward Street. What happened to the person? I'm not sure. We've been out of the world. We've done that. Yeah. We have some of those. This was demolished and existing wood frame multi-failure residents. And by two land parcels into one directly new four story 16 dwelling unit multi-failure residential condominium of wood frame construction new building. They have a one story garage at grade line and accommodate 22 parking vehicles. The violation of article 14 section 14 dash two additional lot of area quiet article 15 section one. Floody a ratio is excessive article 17 use of open space to insufficient article 18 front yard was insufficient article 23 section 9 design article 23 section 9 design article 19 section one side yard and sufficient article 20 radio. 23-1 street parking. Was insufficient. Name and address for the record please. The new madam chair members the boy may be sure to learn to turn it into business address of 350 was broadway in self-awesome. Madam chair a bit of background. This matter was approved by the board of appeal on December 15, 2015. During the statutory appeal period condominium unit owners residing a 368 djst street director butters appealed the decision of this board to Boston housing court. We're here today on a remand order from the judge in the housing court for further findings. I'm going to request deferral today and the reason why is because I believe that the purpose of this hearing is about to become moot because there is a settlement agreement in place with the plaintiffs at 366 djst street which if all goes according to plan will result in dismissal of the complaint. The underlying complaint the underlying litigation in the housing court which is resulted in this hearing should be we hope dismissed. That being the case there would be no further matter before the board of appeal since we're here as a remand in the court case that we hope is going to go away. So this is a request for deferral. It's a request for deferral and the other parties aware of it. Yes, the other the plaintiffs attorneys are not here as part of the agreement because they understood that this request would be made. The hope again is that the settlement agreement can be signed and adopted by the court. Thereby would make any deferred hearing unnecessary as well. My hope would be to be able to report back to the board of appeal that the settlement I'm sorry that the underlying litigation has been dismissed and I would provide a notice of dismissal to the board. Okay, thank you. May I have a motion? Motion for deferral. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? The last item on the docket? Date. January 24th? So January 24th is at the date. I respect we won't even need to come in but that would be give us enough time. January 24th. Thank you. Okay. Happy holidays, everybody. And happy new year. Mr. Case. What is the case? What is the case? Are you the... No, I'm not a resident. Okay, no, we'll need to. There's a request for deferral and the deferral and the applicant request. That's what usually happens. So this meeting has been... ...is now adjourned. So we are going to be hearing this. We are going to be hearing this.