 you you you you you you you you you you you you you you will start with a real call Mr. Sembridge. Here Mr. Collins. Here Mr. Mr. you Mr. you Mr. you you Mr. Sembridge. Thank you, Madam Chair. I ask you if there are any requests for or withdrawals or withdrawals from the 1 p.m. factor. Yeah. Then they hear me. No, let me just make sure Martell, you look afraid of her. Yes, I am. Okay, go ahead. Um, so we were prepared to argue today based upon plans that we received from an information request on October 10, 2023. May I pause you for a quick second? I'm sorry. How far there as this is the interpretation, is this where he would also seek deferral? Yes, you can see the deferral since it's under the 1 p.m. time frame. So at this point, Secretary, you can read that into the record really quickly. And so this is for case real way. 155 0 case 155 05 2 0 with the address of 10 a parkway. Go ahead. Go ahead, Mr. Johnson. Thank you all so much. Good afternoon. I'm sorry, Chairman Dong in, members of the board. My name is Marto Johnson of Energy and Agriculture here. And I represent Martha, Fisher and Lewis Prado will live at eight park lane and Jamaica plane next door and very close to the 10 park lane address. Late yesterday afternoon, we received the permanent holder's response to our appeal. And much to our confusion. We've learned that the plans that we've been relying on have not been correct. On October 10, 2023, we sent off. And I'm sorry, I'm sorry, a public records request requesting all of the plans that were submitted with the permanent application. What we received is not what was relied on for the application. And so our entire presentation, the slides that we submitted last week, they weren't a company that arguments that we would now make based on these renderings. I'm just requesting that we could post on this hearing for a couple of weeks, two to four weeks. And we'll be able to come back with other issues and the same issues that we've identified, but better prepared with the renderings available for you all to use. God, as we do the presentation. Any comments or questions from the board? Man, chair, I apologize. I know an individual who has their hand raised, that's the permanent holder attorney. So if you'd like, they can respond to why they should be heard today. I would also. Okay, go ahead. Yeah, I would also advise that I believe to vote against the deferral since I believe it could be heard today and under the main issue whether the permit was correctly issued under article four. But that would be my recommendation. I know attorney, we just was unmuted, so I believe he can speak to it as well. Okay, briefly, Mr. Weiston, then we'll. Yes, I'm, chair. We very much like to go ahead today for two reasons. One of the issue of hardship chasing a high back in his wife or not wealthy people, they put an enormous amount of their life savings into reconstructing the scratch. It is now legal jeopardy. They've got to take it down the big excavation pit their site. They have two small children. They have a household building materials, which can't be stored at non-existent garage. The kids can't really play on the yard. They would like to proceed, but more importantly, this issue of the incorrect plans is an absolute red herring. It is clear from the petitioners own filing, they were referring to two totally different sets of plans, which are earlier proposals that were not pursued. One is tall on a very different footprint. One is low on a, on a, on a, on a different layout. It's obvious to even a cursory examination of what they submitted to the cash for their appeal, that their plans made no sense. This is not a careful appeal based on the plans itself. This is an attempt to just delay and run out the clock on the opponent rebuilt. And what are they rebuilding? It 100 year old garage that was deemed by I state to be a structural unsafe article for us as they can rebuild and replace it in cotton. The appeal challenges that I'm looking here at page two, it says specifically that they cannot rebuild their original garage in the article for article for us been applied thousands of times in the city of Boston until our rebuilding and structural strength even existing structure in this case a 100 year old garage. That is an issue before the board that can be ruled on today. We understand that I speak and also address this issue today. Okay, let's pause because we're going to hear all this again. When you speak. I'd like to move out of it by May. I'm not going to have a back and forth on this. I think we have enough information for the board members to make a decision if someone wants to make a motion. Either way we're going to hear this so it's either today or a different day. And remember just remind me this is just a request to defer not to approve or just group. Exactly. We're not we're not voting on the actual. The issue in question just whether to hear it today so may have a motion. Yeah, but to make a motion to deny the request for deferral. Is there a second? I can. Mr. Stembridge. Yeah. Mr. Colton's. Yes. Ms. Logan. Yes. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Ms. Canado. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. All right. Any other request for deferral? We can do. Manager, I don't believe we have any more. I would also advise to call this case out of order called an interpretation case first so we can hear that right now. Fine with that. That's we can proceed. Do I need to make a motion on that or can we just. No, no. Secretary Stembridge can just read that to record it. We can continue with the presentation. Sure. That's fine. Okay. So this point we will go to the case for one. In interpretation case, we have one. Okay. B 08. One five five zero five two zero. The address is 10 a far from. The apple can't do. I'm sorry. This is the job. And it will be out again. Speed. Speed is case. I'm talking to me. I'm talking to me. I'm talking to me. I'm speaking. Sure. Madam chair. If I'm in again, I'm done. We. My law firm is dating. Torpy. We are based in Boston 175. Federal Street. We can disregard the issue of the plan sets. Again, if we need to get into that, I will say simply that. It is obvious from the plans submitted in connection with this appeal. That they are inconsistent with each other. There's a two story building attached, a one story building. Obviously, if the apple feels like they got any correct plans that from ISD, it was clear that they did not have the correct plans. They had to do to go back. ISD is a wonderful renovation. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. It is a very important thing to know. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. I want to ask you something. Please ask what you have read? Can you make a sign too far? Can you make a sign on the唱 trip, can you make a sign on the return wage? Can the one to make a sign on the return. Can you make a sign on the return. You can tell it, 15 foot limit basement the growth celebration. You can tell it, 15 foot limit basement the growth celebration. you can tell it, 15 foot Limit baixo Mason gravel provide that this is its its its its its its its its its its its its its its its its its its its its its its its its its its its its its its its its its its its its its its its ST's resource content babies in that there is a big neutral なarta – liberal liberal liberal live in that disease Mr. Joseph. Mr. Joseph. Can you comment. demolition and constructed as is based on engineers report and also building inspectors report. So we had an engineers report that tells us that the building has been in distress, dilapidated and beyond repair. And our building aspect also went to the scene, expected the building and find out the engineers report was correct. And building inspectors were the violations and all of the buildings of the garage came to us, applied for a prelude, a vote article for, to remove demolition and rebuild as is. And the height of the garage is not going to be taller than 15 feet. As the court requires, as Mr. Johnson alluded to. And all he had to do was for render constructions. When no construction has nothing to do with this garage, which article four was evoked. We have dealt with this situation many many many many different times before. And I've been a cleansing seminar building inspectors and also now inspectors and buildings building commercial and for the city of Boston for the last past three years. And I've been with the city ISD for 29 years. And that has been common practice for us to allow dilapidated distress structures to rebuild as is. Following. Mr. Johnson, just to clarify, where is the height of the building measured? So from grade. From grade. That the surveyor established the grade from the from grade from the fun grade. From the front grade. You have to move around the house. Yes. So it's the sidewalk, correct? Not at the back of the house. Now if you have a heap of it's half if the mean grade from the heap of it's not from all the way up to the tip of the roof if the mean from the heap of it's half the way the height of the in a building is kept measured. And then is it measured? It's measured from the sidewalk is that the grade of the ground that it's measured from? That's correct. That's where that's that's the great that's where it get measured from. Not from the back that when that's that's the great thing. Okay. Thank you for clarifying. It meant sure if I could also add the issue of grade is less pertinent where we have 100 year old building. It's just being reconstructed. It's it's it is a nonconforming building. It is slightly into the side of the yard set back the modern set back is 10 feet. It is slightly into that set back but like many buildings in Jamaica playing they're a little closer one other than it can be reconstructed today. But it's a modest building. Were we to rebuild it but try to measure grade from the sloping backyard? We'd end up with the garage that you can fit a toy car into but not an actual vehicle. And you can see from the picture this is a modest building. The others have lived next to us for 36 years since they bought their house in 1987. The neighbors yard is torn up. It's savings for investing in this property. I have to add one other point. We've been post-an article four which should dispose of this but there's a 45 day window to appeal in Massachusetts if you oppose being issuer sort of going. Permit the neighbors from new Mr. Ibeck was playing rebuild. He had taken down the garage. He showed different proposed modifications to the building that rejected those. Mr. Ibeck had not preceded with slight variations on this building. That's where the board member previously asked about the extended building but the cannelly for on the back there was a proposal adjacent to his neighbors. When they didn't agree with that he abandoned that proposal. So we just went forward to rebuild. They had it until approximately August 26th. He would take a day to appeal his July 11th 2023 building permit. They did bail it in vital materials. Higher contractors move ahead and only after he had started work did they actually appeal. That's enormously disrupted to his wife and to his family. I personally am surprised that neighbors in 15 years have taken this action for the me merely building 100 year old garage. Okay thank you. Are there other questions from Mr. Joseph from the board? Mr. Joseph are you responding further or is yes I would like to make one clarification on what I just heard here. Okay that was not yet said back for access restructures is four feet. It's not ten feet for a normal. The side yard set back where and side can be four feet away from the lot lines according to Zolle but this one I believe is four point eight feet on the on the side yard there. So there is no violation on the side yard whatsoever on this. Thank you Mr. Johnson. Thank you. We don't refute that the building might have been deemed dangerous. What we do refute is that because it's being built under article four is that it can bypass other provisions of the code. So it should have undergone a small project review when the roof shape changed. That is a provision of the code that applies to NDODs. That is in section 55. 45.1 second. And in Mr. Joseph's response to our request for enforcement he said that article 55 doesn't apply because it's being rebuilt under section four and that just can't be the case because they will make the rest of the code no more. And also Mr. Joseph stated the building had to be rebuilt in kind under section four. This is different. This building, this garage has a basement now which increases the height of it. And so we would just request that you revolt this permit until we're able to review and and have this go through the proper channels of public comment and community input because there are many concerns from the neighborhood that this building is going to not be what they say it is. And also it's required to go into small project review because of the shape of the roof in particular and the concerns of the height of the building. Okay. As Mr. Johnson is referring a small project review I'm going to ask Mr. Hampton if you're available to weigh in on that since he's mentioned that several times. No, no, it's Mr. Hampton from BPD on. Okay. Hearing that he's not are there other questions from the board? Can't see your faces. Okay. Is someone ready to make a motion? I'm out of motion to approve this to agree with ISD's original assessment of the bill. Uh, Matt, Matt, yes. I do. Mr. Konsky, you clarify when you need to approve the revoking of the permit or having the permit stay. Having the permit stay. Okay. Okay. And is there a second? I'm setting the areas BPD into national or through the modules for the design group. Okay. Mr. Collins, are you willing to revise that to include BPD design review? Yes. Well, I'm not quite sure how to word that obvious. So approve the building permit with BPD design review. Is that does that mean? Well, I don't believe that is necessary. This is just whether to approve the revocation of the existing permit. It has been under article four. It wouldn't have to go through BPD design review at that point. Okay. So the motion is to approve the original decision by ISD. Correct. Correct. Okay. And Mr. Stembridge has seconded. Okay. Mr. Stembridge. Yeah. Mr. Collins. Yes. Ms. Logan. Yes. Mr. Eiken. Yes. Ms. Panato. Yes. The care also votes yes. The motion carries. Thanks very much. Okay. Mr. Stembridge. Okay. Put that through the turns of the other area. The area is going to be one at the end. First, the case of B081536690. The address of 1248CVFW Parkway. This is in part of the case. This is a not of the case. If the applicant and order to register any further, they explain to the board. Yes. Good morning. Madam Chair. Members of the Board of Attorney Ryan Gostoff from the Chemical Demilor 28th State's Treats. We head out to Boston Mass with me as well as afternoon as Richard Olstein and Thomas Mystros from the development team. This is an appeal generally stating, seeking to leave for the development of a new multi-family building at 1248VFW Parkway. We're just currently on the side of a three-story commercial structure. Once the redevelopment is complete, it will contain a new five-story residential structure with 55 residential units and on-site parking. Broadly stated, the building itself will have approximately 55 feet and have approximately 60,000 square feet of space. So to that end, it did require a heart of 80 large project to review. We received the BPDA Board approval on November 16th. However, the project does require zoning relief as well, with respect to the use, which is conditional at the site, as well as its height. Having said that, generally, I'll turn it over to both Tom and Rick, who can go through some of the projects specific itself. Good afternoon, members. The board, my name is Tom. Mystros. I'm a zoning architect, a member of the architect's project, as well as the co-operating, the environmental consultant to put together the radical process. I want to note that the project was first introduced to the BPDA. It's not going to be back in the event, but 2021. So we've had a long process for regard review by both of others, an I&G, which has been reviewing approved by West Lashvin Group, the rest of the council received in West Lombard, the BPDA Board. The list of here is a community benefit, something to only one that I'm just not to note is that the project of 55 units has nine I&G units that is about 17%. I'm pleased to exceed the requirements for the housing units, as it's currently established, the describing sector, the other side, please. The site is located, the site is located in West Fox Bay, a box, the green and branch of the Cedar Rail line, and also the registry of the design as known as commercial in the commercial sub-discute area. The map is evolving to be a multi-family district, and we get the excitement of which we all know that the adjacent project, just recently completed, also where we hear the President's off-paper about the big width housing, which is a 60-unit project. You can't site building that site, please. The proposed building occupies the northern section of what was originally traveling out of rock to some of the basement. There's organized designs to create a build upon the open space cut that created by the neighborhood development that's just been a width development. It sits 12 feet off of the property line adjacent to the communal rail line, and it sits down off of Baker Street, which there's a close-to-no-code change between 14 and 20 feet, or so from south to north along Baker Street. It has 55 residential parking spaces over another year, including the tall stations for renew charging, and there's a restrooms that the transit, because the classic site makes us way longer to Baker Street. We'll talk a little about that a little bit next slide, please. There's no going to cross over the entrance to the building, and there's two to the far west of the project off of the open area. It includes 55 parking stations and three parking spaces for parking, called Isaac Olsos-Barras, some public park spaces that are loaded near the parking area as well. Next slide, please. The project is a composition of one, two, and three bedroom units, on the other side of the building. It is a primary, a full story structure, but with the fifth floor, the recess and provides the balance of humans in a lower than the corridor, the western end of the site, of the roof area, to the east, was the primary east for the shallow and space-never-seed to go. You can see from this slide where the building has been designed to have that upper floor be set back, and also on the right of the plan that the building does sit back and sit over the roof of the Baker Street. It requires to get the pedestrian access that requires a series of ramps and steps that will allow the pedestrian access to go across the side and up to Baker Street, as we need to be extensive great over on Baker Street. I would have made it over high to the buildings or the sea types of Baker's at the moment that the east was practically going to the next slide, please. This is a view from the the park area, west of the building entrance, you'll know that we've been set back from the empty right way on the left, you know, no relationship of the proposed building to the recently completed residence at Baker Street up to the right. Next slide, please. Again, this is an elevation of the building from the east. You'll see that again in greater detail, the extensive great change. You'll know the setbacks of the Florida to a many-fake visual impact on that story and the relationship to the existing by-dot on Baker Street and the MDT right away. Next slide, please. One of the major features that have been incorporated into the project of the request of the BPDM has been a series of rampant sewer structure that will allow public access from the project site and the public open space and public that lies up to Baker Street. Next slide, please. It was that feature that required the building to actually be shortened and resulted partially in the creation of the set for, you know, not here that the open space has been organized in a court manner to build upon the adjacent open space created by the residence office site. Next slide, please. I think we're done. So, once in a moment, as we've already mentioned, the project requires a conditional use permit because what the federal residence has done a lot of commercial district requires a height relief from the 45 to 55 feet because it's somewhat mitigated by the current setbacks. I also should note that the building around the facility for the site is an FIRR2. The site is much lower than that at just at 1.16, so it's the site of giving back and off a lot of that argument the project is functioning. And with that, concludes the basic kind of sort of creative, I did a meaningful implementation on available to answer any questions the board may have. Thank you. Is the PPD project manager on by chance? Yes, Madam Chair, I am on. Can you give us some context? Yes, I can. Yes. On February 13, 2023, the Boston Planning Development Committee received a letter on the platform on May 11, 2023 received a prior notification form for the proposal that was submitted. 55 units, 55 service parking spaces with nine affordable units. We have an IEG meeting, a virtual covered meeting, and a joint IEG covered meeting for the proposal. Both the virtual covered meetings were advertised to local paper and IEG mail and the commentary for the project ended on June 16, 2023. Questions from the board? Can you just talk a little bit about the nine affordable IEP units, what AMI they're targeted to? So they're all in present AMI. It's consisting of two bedrooms, the rest are all one bedrooms. Yes. And that's also the one we better in the next IE. Other questions from the board? They're hearing none. Can I have public testimony? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, calling on anyone with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This town in Arizona is Office like to defer to the judgment that's board. As you heard from the BPA, this went through a lengthy community process. We understand that there were some residents who raised concerns regarding the proposed plan as well as traffic and parking. One resident mentioned there's some illegal parking issues with the intersection of Baker and Durant and was concerned that this development would contribute more to illegal parking. I understand there are also some other residents who had some concerns regarding how the ramp is formulated to connect with Baker Street. The applicant do you want to meet with the West Rocksbury Neighborhood Council, which agreed to approve or support this proposal? But that will defer to the board at this time. Thank you. Thank you. And I apologize. I was looking at the wrong project. The AMI, the unit rate found is 70% AMI, and they went through the AMFH process, which requested that they try to provide as many family units as possible. So it's providing one three bedroom and one two three four six two bedrooms and two one bedrooms. Thanks for clarifying. All right, stand. Thank you, Madame Ambassador. Madame Chair, members of the board, this is minor operational. I represent in hundreds of hidden carpenters that we work for a city of Boston. We'd like to go and record and support on this project and we appreciate the developer's consideration for our issues. Thank you. And I have no additional right sense. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? We are in none. May I have a motion? I'll make a motion to approve with BPDH's on review. Again, Mr. Stubbridge? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Mr. Logan? Yes. Mr. Eakin? Yes. Mr. Bernardo? Yes. Chair also votes yes. The motion carries. Yes. Thank you. Good luck on. Next we have case of the 08153906. Put the ad you have the 19 fine code growth. It's the applicant and the representative of this project. Today's going to be a moment. Yes. Good afternoon, Madame Chair, members of the board. Attorney John Fulgini on behalf of the applicant. Robert Cuddy. And this is the system. We've said 19 fine clip road in West Roxbury. This is it. It's donkeys and one of six thousand. So this proposal to change occupancy of an existing three-story two-family dwelling to a three-family dwelling. The existing third-floor attic and space will be renovated to accommodate a new dwelling unit. No exterior work or structural work is being supposed. And the existing building remains the same in scale as to the two three building in the area. The egress for this new unit and exterior porches and stairways have been completed under a separate permit. As a result, this proposal provides an additional housing opportunity while imposing minimal to no impact on the surrounding neighborhoods. The unit mixes are floor one. You have a three-bed one bath, approximately 13 hundred square feet, floor two, three-bed one bath, 13 hundred square feet, and floor three is two-bed one bath, 12 hundred square feet. The parking is provided via driveway alongside the building and the desegarage located below the building. There's also an existing concrete service in the back of the home that can accommodate parked vehicles. The violations in this were minimal. We had an FAR only had a use, which is a pre-existing non-conforming for the two because it's in a single family zone. And while this sub-district is one-half and a three-office are forbidden use, the parcel is just two homes away from Washington Street, which accommodates a number of multi-family residential three-family uses. Additionally, it's directly to the left of this building is a six-unit condominium development as a direct-to-butter. The proposed floor will exceed the FAR with no exterior changes proposed. There'll be no impact to the surrounding neighborhood. We have provided this board with 13 letters of support, including a letter from the director butter at 35 pine cliff, which is the one who would be most impacted. The applicant's style of the process without an attorney has successful letters meaning however due to not being familiar with the zoning code and questions he was asked of West Rocksby neighborhood council voted against it by three to two. As you will see from the BPDA recommendation, this proposal fits in scale and is consistent. As there are many larger buildings located next door, we're going to throw those down the street. This proposal has always been set up as a three, however assessing his had it for two for 40 years. The applicant can simply want to renovate the space, however, he is a homeowner, he wanted to make sure that he did it legally and that's why he filed these plans with Iostate. That's all I have. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Pudging. Any questions from the board? Okay, here in Dunveh, I have public testimony. Yes, Madam Chair members of the board, call on anyone with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. This time the mayor is also to defer to the judgment of this board. Some back information, the community process and a butters being was held on November 14th. As you heard from the applicant's representation, there's a number of support letters on file and I understand that the most recent time that they've been the West Rocksby neighborhood council is November 28th. The proposal passed with support from the neighborhood council. Not with that. We'll defer to the board at this time. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. You see mine or go ahead? We have no additional ways to answer. Okay. Any other questions from the board? Hearing none may have a motion. I'm motion approved. There's second. Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Logan. So I didn't hear you. Yes. Thank you. Mr. Haken. Yes. Mr. Panado. Yes. Chair also votes. Yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. How many? Nice day. Next we have case B.O.A. 153-5266 with the address of 176 Minustre. It's the applicant and whatever. President. We'll explain the case to the board. How you want to the proposal? I don't see any raised hands. Okay. I think the speaker dropped already. It was on mute. Okay. Yeah. Looks like he is trying to speak. I don't know if he needs to be raised with the House. Yes. Just good. You see him? John. John Dory. This is your JP. He's under John Dory. He's on your panelist so he can just unmute himself. Okay. Mr. Dory, if you can hear us, you need to unmute yourself. I know he was on yesterday and he was having issues when we did the print check. But we were able to get him situated. John, can he? Oh, can he hear you now? Yeah. Sorry. Okay. You're going to need to, I think, let go of one device because you have an echo. Okay. You need to go. Yeah. Aside that numbers from the board and JP Dory, I own the first floor and basement unit at 176 Minustre and a proposal to change the use of occupancy from commercial and the first floor back to residential, which would actually make it a four-familian because the basement unit is residential but it was part of the first floor, which is commercial. So I'd like to change the first floor from commercial to residential and have the basement unit of separate unit on its own. Okay. Any external changes? No, not everything is standing exactly the same. Okay. Questions from the board? Just you said there was an existing basement unit already, correct? Yeah, but it was part of the first floor. Part of the first floor. So part of the first floor, meaning it was commercial as part of the first floor. No, there was a zone residential in 1986. Went to the board of the ins and 1986 to make the first floor commercial and the basement residential, but it was all considered the one unit. Okay. What's the ceiling height in the basement? It is seven foot four. Mountain chair? Yes. So the proponent, will there be more people living in the basement? Yeah. So there will be dead medical patients? Yeah, there already is. There's a bedroom, some of that, and the kitchen. Mr. Collins, any issues with the ceiling height? No. Okay. It needs to be at least a date. Okay. Any other questions from the board? Hearing none may have public testimony. Good afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the board of Ross Cochran, who the mayor's office of neighborhood services. The applicant has to read their community process at this time. Our office held in better's meaning in November of 2023. I also have two letters of support that are on file and the civic association in this area does have a letter of support on file as well. At this time, we'd like to defer to this board's judgment. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, these are the board. We may miss from Council Fitzgerald's office. Our office we would like to go on record to support this proposal. Two. Madam Chair, I have no arrangements. Okay. Any other questions from the board? Hearing none may have a motion. A motion approved. I do already have a supervisor that no Billy Co. would really be granted. Okay. They have a second? Yes. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Locke. Yes. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Mr. Canado. Yes. Chair also votes yes. The motion carries. Good luck. Thank you very much. Next we have case of view away. One five four seven five eight one. With the address of 14 Bill size street. Turning small. I should do it. So good afternoon, Madam Chair. Members of the board are turning Derek small. Have a business just adjust our 51 dobs and row. I'm going to do a little bit of work. This is the board of turning Derek small. Have a business just adjust our 51 dobs and row. With me today is in the small and tan. Who is from JCBT architects. Madam Chair, we're here today seeking to confirm the legal occupancy of the building as a three family dwelling. The zoning sub district here is a two have four thousand. And our lot sizes eight thousand six hundred and ninety square feet. We have two violations with regard to the project. Our street parking. As you can see from the plan shown shown. Is we have a quite enough driveway. We have an existing garage in the back of the property. We have plenty of green space in the back which we chose not to. We move so that we can keep the green space and have the parking integrated in the driveway. The other violation is a forbidden use of three F because it is a two have zoning sub district. Madam Chair, it's currently a three family. The plans will show that we're proposing on the first floor three bedrooms two baths at approximately twenty four hundred square feet on the second floor we have three beds one bath at approximately twelve hundred square feet. And we have a third floor three bedrooms one bath at approximately nine hundred and fifty square feet. Madam Chair, if the we can scroll down. The only change the exterior is we are removing the exterior staircase leading up to the second and third units and we are placing that staircase on the interior. The building will be fully sprinklered and if you scroll down one more I think this should be a well we've been taxed the assessing the records have us big tax on this property as a three family since 1985 I think that should be one of the slides. I don't know Jessica if we can get that shown but we have been taxed as a three family and it will continue to be a three family. The units are rentals as we do have current residents in the building we have young professionals that work at the hospital and we have one unit occupied by two students at North East University. I'll stop there and entertain any questions that the board may have. Thank you so just clarifying you're currently using it as a three family and you're trying to legalize it as a three family. That is correct. I don't know if the assessing records are able to show I think we sent that in. There was a little bit of a discrepancy at ISD and the records they didn't have records of the odd capency so what we did was when we applied for the permits to do the renovations they said we have to go to the board to confirm the occupancy as a three family and that's what we're here to do. And to clarify are there any changes to the building interior? How did all of you think stay in the same? Just the interior work again we were fully sprinkler in the building and the current residence where we may. Other questions from the board? I said can you sit with that? Here you go. Hearing none can I have public testimony? Yes, good afternoon Madam Chair. I'm the member of the Board of Mackey Vance School of the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This time our office would like to defer judgment to the board. We held in the letters meeting for this application on September 13th of last year. There were questions but no clear support or opposition expressed during that meeting. The applicant also met with the Mission Hill Neighborhood Housing Services who are in opposition to the proposal as well as the Community Alliance and Mission Pill which is an opposition to the proposal voting one in favor of the proposal 23 opposed and one abstention. We know of concerns about the owners not meeting with neighbors on this proposal about the current condition of the property, the apparent lack of support from the butters and just general opposition to the building changing from a one to a three-family use. And without a big deferred to the board. Thank you. Other questions? I mean other comments? I still see a raised hand here. Maureen, central request to unmute you. Can you give us your name and address and tell us briefly if you support opposition? Thank you. I'm Martin Baim. I'm one 88 Allegheny Street in Mission Hill and speak as President of the local community Alliance in Mission Hill. I will see because of the Association of the Meeting Twice for the Proponents attorney voted in overwhelming proposals. This was brought forward by neighbors and the butters including the following four. One property has a history of poor upkeep. Two, the garage appears to be used as a shop. Grants have been unloaded unloading three wheel motorcycles at all hours of the night. Three, evidence for overcrowding for letterboxes, unit embezzlement before I see inspected and cited. And four, owners behind I had behind an LSE construct but refuse to give the actual name or address or to show up in hybrid community meetings. For these main reasons, we do not support allowing a three-year-old building in a two-family zone. Thank you for your consideration. Thank you. Any other raised hands? Hi, John and Francie Hal, 12th Hillside. We are direct butters and the houses are zoos. There are people coming and going all night. There's a number of people in the basement. Upkeep is not good. The mail is never taken in. The trash is always out. There's right now there's a bed and all the trash cans dumped into the driveway. And the little garage. We can't exactly figure out what it is but there are a very large number of trikes and small motorcycles that go in and out all night on the weekends. They are taken out by van and trucks and taken two places. People ride them and then they're brought back. It's very disturbing. It isn't anything normal that you expect in a decent residential area. I don't trust this landlord at all. Plus we don't know who he is. We don't know where he is and we can't get him to contact with him at all. So can you please state whether you're in support or opposition for the record? Opposition. Thank you. It just needs to be in the record. Oh no no I appreciate you. Thank you. Thank you. Yes can you hear me? Yes sir. Okay my name is Mitchell Hilton. I live in 59-year-old Roy Street in one mission hill. I've been a mission hill resident for over 50 years. I'm the past president of the mission hill literally. I'm a board member of Mission Hill neighborhood housing services. A letter of opposition was cited earlier. I just want to Ms. Mancecoy did a very good job of summarizing the neighborhood the opposition as voiced by the two neighborhood organizations and Ms. have the immediate butter also stated opposition. Three or four opportunities and the property owner declined to speak to neighbors of butters in regard to this proposal. I support the house. I support the two community organizations. Mission Hill neighborhood housing service and community alliance of Mission Hill and we are opposed to the request for the recent stated by the two previous speakers. Thank you Mr. Hilton. Well Mr. Smok, could you respond especially to the basement living as well? Is that a a part of the living space or is the situation? No the car proposal is going to have no basement living space. No it's all stories and there's one bathroom in the basement that will remain there could be no bedrooms in the basement under the new plan. And going back to with regard to to the owner at the meeting the owner was out of the country and could not attend the meeting personally. I was there. The ass later if he could come back on zoom but there was a time prior to his hearing so that's where we are with regard to that. Other than that again we do have we do rent to students. The garage is generally used for their bikes and their motor bikes as they are students in the 10 northeast community. We also rent to young professionals who work at the hospital. Thank you for the questions from the board. Do you have a damage area? Do you have one? Attorney's small, how many unit there's currently three units and are they all there's three rented units of this time and it's been that way historically? That's correct. And the purpose of doing this is because of the identified that that it was just a two family. I'm sorry one family but yeah yes the records weren't. Yes sorry that I think the records weren't clear. I mean I wish I had the the assessing piece because I did submit that for the record that they just had to tell us that the building's been being assessed by the city as a three family since 1985 as far back as their record shows. Yeah. I think it's a different thing that all these papers have to say but also those who buy them housing. And so and so part of the renovation obviously is to get with the property manager and make sure that the building is kept up in a the reasonable manner. And can you take this money here in note to do that so that's concerned me? Yeah. I mean can the owner agree or its management agent to meet with the community so that these issues can be addressed going forward? Yes. We can we can mention meeting having the owner meet with with the community group. Okay. You may want to add that as per viso if you're so inclined. Any other questions from the board? Hearing none may have a motion. A motion to approve with the per viso that the owner meets with the community. Do I have to put a timeline on that? I'll be here. On the next one. I mean you can I don't necessarily. That's up to you David to be honest. Timeline I don't know how I see community you can put on a provider that the telling me so the community by such a date and there's so proof of that of me or the community. I am a time I'm not here looking for. I know that's what's going on. I would say that the owner should agree to meet with the community prior to commencement of construction and during construction to address any ongoing issues. Mr. Collins do you? That works. So. Okay. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge? Yeah. Mr. Collins. Yes. Ms. Logan. Yes. Mr. Egan. Yes. Ms. Panado. Yes. Sure also looks yes. The motion carries. Thank you Madam Stembridge. The board. How am I going to do that? Next we have case B08153-5768. The address of 297 Falker Hill Street is the applicant and or they have a representative president which binds to the board. Yes I am. My name is Tim Sheen. I'm the architect for the project at 9 Wall Street in Charlestown. Well what we're doing here is visiting existing 1850s. It's a two family where it can provide a pack to a single family. The reason we're in front of the zoning is on this parcel there's an existing garage which would like to make about 25 inches wider so we get two cars in there and there's a small 10 foot wide 11 12 foot wide I'm sorry it's trapezoid outside space. We'd like to build a small mudroom entry so people can you know go from the ground floor to the garage without going outside you know it would be it involved the set of stairs. We're also here because we're asking you for a roof deck and on top of this garage since this house doesn't have outside you know it doesn't have much outside space the way the way it exists would like to put a by-level deck for outside space. The house when it's finished will be about 20 at 2400 if it's in the family. Roof deck will be about 120 square feet and we have five violations we have a side yard violation which is because we're building it to the side yard with the roof deck. We have a roof structure restriction because in Charlestown whenever you alter a roof or do a roof deck that's a violation we're asking for about 105 square foot for the mudroom and the additional garage area but since we're already the over that's a violation and open space where we're going to get quite a bit back because of the decks and all but you can only count 25% of the decks so it would be like 70 square feet short on that so that's a violation and then we had a rear yard violation because the garage is all the way at the back of the property and we're going all the way so that would be a zero lot setback and that's it we've had a we had a neighborhood meeting which was not really attended and what I got from the neighbors the biggest concern was not changing the existing curb cut which we promised to do which we don't have to change it's close enough with that I'll leave it to you. Thank you just to confirm you mentioned the garage going to the lot line so is that a pre-existing condition or are you making it worse? Yes it is yes it is. Okay and one of your earlier drawings showed your abutting properties having roof decks already is that the case? That's true yeah the house on the opposite corner is the same almost the same exact house itself right yeah okay I've done three of five on the moment street probably. Thank you other questions from the board. Can you speak to the visibility of the roof decks from the street? Yeah it's good for right in front I held it back 10 feet but we're a corner watt so there's no way to you know there's no way to hide you're going to see it as you come up on your hill street it's up 45 feet in the air probably. The thought with that would just go with the cast iron steel rail that the BPD Lexus can use and it shouldn't stand out you know what we usually do is a structure we'll finish it a dark hole like the rest of the roof that's sort of a dumb one I've had this situation where it couldn't really hide it we kind of make something out of it. Other questions from the board? Okay here in men may have public testimony. The men and chamber members of the board Sean Green with the mayor's office and they have services and the blood is meaningless health the 297 bronch at hill street in November 29 since that time this office is between zero letters and support that side zero letters and sorry zero letters and opposition one support ended petition with 21 signatures for butters and residents in support of rehabbing 297 bronch at hill street with that we would defer our judgment to the board. Thank you. Director and chairman of the board, Sebastian Fowell from concert hallette office the concert will like to go on support this public thank you. Madam chairman of the board, Joe McGeckren, City Council, Aaron Murphy's office would like to go and recommend support. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Here in Dunham may I have a motion? I'll make a motion for approval with BPD A8 design review. Madam second. Thank you. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Ms. Logan? Yes. Mr. Aiken? Yes. Ms. Pannato? Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you everybody. Next we have case B8139 0898 the address of 161 Wagon Street is the applicant and more than represent the current looks going to the board. Hi, good afternoon. Madam Chair, members of the board, Marcos of where you know here from float design architects look at it in sale in Massachusetts. We are representing Ms. Haley Henson, Taylor the telephone Ferguson the builder is actually in the call as well as the owner. We are actually asking for release for the roof structure. We presented the project through the neighborhood association Ms. Haley having heard the neighborhood for many years. She actually was the first owner for this particular building at the third floor. She brought her husband to the end there since 2019. The actual structure was designed for a roof deck. The neighborhood about the property already has a deck so they felt they need to kind of have some exterior space that they could enjoy with their family which is the reason why we are presented in front of the board. We presented these in front of the neighborhoods and most of people were in support. We actually have seats letters of support for this particular project and we're asking for release from the board. So I'm here for to respond any questions. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Karen, I'm not in public testimony. I'm right. Hello, my name is Jennifer Members of the board. I love the igongas with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. O and S have seen a butters meeting for the project in June 2023. The applicant met with the Orient Heights neighborhood council in October of 2023 and the group voted to support the project with a vote of 20 in favor by the Gens and two abstained. At this time our office will have two different judgment to the board. Thank you. You? Good afternoon, my name is Karen Members of the board. It's the bachelor's and prior to the consular office. Take counsel with that cute dance support of this project. Thank you. I'm not trying to move the waste. Is there any other way stands just that? No, the waste can. Okay. Any other questions from the board? Madam Chair, there were comments from the our comments from the disability permission. Okay. Do you want to read them? First is there is no accessible route to the proposed roof deck. The next is the existing route deck with incorrect and built without any accessible route and the proposed addition of that is using the same stairs to access those with them. Okay. So the applicant would like to respond? Well, I was not aware of that. There's not totally pictures. I don't know if the I have to really have the fun of the board here. In my computer, that is access of a radio insisted. So I was not aware of that. Madam Chair. Okay. With that information, may I have a motion? Make a motion to approve with BPD design review to ensure that all the roof deck elements are set back to recommended five feet from the roof edge. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Mr. Wolk? Yes. Mr. Aiken? Yes. Ms. Pinato? Yes. Chair also votes yes. The motion carries. There is so much. Let's see everyone next month. Thank you. Thank you.