 Do you and the floor is yours. That sounds good. Thank you. Good evening. The City of Boston zoning board of appeal hearing for June 13, 2024 is now in session. This hearing is being conducted in accordance with the applicable provisions of the open meeting law including the updated provisions enacted by the legislature last year. The new law allows the board to continue its practice of holding virtual hearings until March 2025. This hearing of the board is being held remotely via the Zoom webinar event platform. This hearing is also being recorded. In accordance, sorry, in an order to ensure this hearing of the board is open to the public, members of the public may access this hearing through telephone and video conferencing. The information for connecting to this hearing is listed on today's hearing agenda, which is posted on the public notices page of the city's website, Boston.gov. Members of the public will enter the virtual hearing as attendees, which means you will not see yourself on the screen and you will be muted throughout unless administratively unmuted when when asked to comment. Board members, applicants and their attorneys or representatives will participate in the hearing as panelists and they will appear alongside the presentation materials when speaking. Panelists are strongly encouraged to keep the video on while presenting to the board. If you wish to comment on an appeal, please click the raise hand button along the bottom of your screen in the Zoom webinar platform. Click it again and your hand should go down. When the host sees your hand, you will receive a request to unmute yourself. Stop yes and you should be able to talk. If you are connected to the hearing by telephone, please press star nine to raise and lower your hand. You must press star six to unmute yourself after you receive the request from the host. Those called upon to comment will be asked to state their name and address first and then provide their comment. In the interest of time and to ensure that you have enough time to do so, please raise your hand as soon as Mr. Stembridge reads the address into the record. Do not raise your hand before the relevant address is called or the meeting host will not know to call upon you at the appropriate time. All right, Mr. Stembridge. Good evening, Madam Chair. Good evening, Ms. Betapuraza. Present. Good evening. Good evening. The floor is yours, Mr. Stembridge. Thank you, Madam Chair. We begin with the hearings for 5 p.m. I've started off with the case B0815927305 with the address of 135 Michelle Street. It's the applicant and whether representing from their police exploring the case. Yes, hello, Madam Chair, members of the board. Mary Kate Campbell with the law from Dr. Golan Tuscano at 11B in Street. I'm here today on behalf of our client, May Perez, who is one of the owners of the proposal on at here at 135 Chelsea Street. Our proposal is to change the occupancy from retail and four residential units to beauty shop and four residential units. Our, we're currently cited only for, for been in use. This, this wasn't a three F2000 sub district and under the new zoning code. It's in an EBR3. Therefore, this, this type of commercial use would be as of right since it's a corner lot under Plany East Boston. It's at the corner of Chelsea Street in the County Road. May and then her business partner, Flora, you know, Flora has been a stylist for 13 years, both of them are East Boston residents and are very excited to open their salon here. We did not need a butters meeting, but we did go to Maverick Central Neighborhood Association and the group did both to support. Here on this floor, Plany, you can see what they're proposing. It's just a one-story salon with styling stations, shampoosations, pedicurstations, and then a reception and waiting area. And I'd be happy to pause and take any questions. Thank you. No questions from me. Any questions from the board? Hearing none may I have public testimony? Any raised hands, Jessica? I have no raised hands at the moment. Okay. Would that may have a motion? Madam Chair, I'd like to put for a motion of approval. May I have a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Is better Raza? Yes. Chair also votes yes. The motion carries. Thank you. Next, we have case BOA 156 99 56 the address of 867 to 871 oil street. It's the applicant and their representative president explains the board. Yes. Good evening, everyone. Good evening, Madam Chair. Members of the board of attorney Ryan Guzda from McDermott, Quilty and Miller 28th State Street, suite 802 Boston, Mass, with me as well as Megan Manulson on behalf of the property owner and Chi Bang on behalf of the proposed tenant operator. This is an appeal seeking a change of use and occupancy for 867 oil street to accommodate a fitness center and gym use on the second floor of the property. The building itself is commercial and nature. The first floor is occupied by a restaurant and actually historically a fitness center or health club had previously been located on the second floor of the building. But for whatever reason, the CFO had never been appropriately updated. So Mr. Mang intends to operate his new fitness center, DBA clientele within that same space. And we're simply here now seeking to appropriately update the CFO for the property. So it actually reflects the uses that are going on within the space. In terms of the build out, there are no structural changes being proposed. Simply minor cosmetic upgrades to the second floor. And prior to coming before you all this evening, we have hosted an a butters meeting and discussed the proposal with the neighborhood association of Back Bay. And it's my understanding that they have submitted a letter of non-opposition to you all. But we're happy to answer any questions that you might have. Thank you. Yes, I saw that letter. Any questions from the board? Hearing none, public testimony. Madam Chair, members of the board, Sigi Johnson with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. This applicant completed the ONS community process. I hosted an a butters meeting on April 29th at which no concerns were raised. The applicant also presented their proposal to the neighborhood association of Back Bay and NAB has submitted a letter of non-opposition. And with that, we defer to the judgment of the board. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, I have no raised hands. Would that may I have a motion? Madam Chair, I'd like to perform a motion of approval. Is there a second? You need to unmute yourself, Mr. Stembridge. Yes, and I'll be. Yes, sir. Thank you. The chair also votes yes. The motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Next, we have case B081584046 with the address of 314 to 330 West Second Street. If the applicant and or the representative's president, they may be the only case to the board. Can you raise your hand if you're on? Hello, I'm the owner. So my name is Maria and I'm the owner of the business planning to operate at the studio or the at the 314 318 West Second Street in South Boston. And today I'm here to request a change of certificate of occupancy from retail to the party parlor. So first of all, I want to say that we don't plan to undertake any constructions, renovations, plumbing work or changes to the existing floor plan. Our intention is just to finish the space with the necessary equipment and furniture to create a status studio. So we're not our occupant load going to be maximum 15 people, but we expect even less. And also we meet all the requirements for health and safety standards of the Boston Health Department, all our data artists are fully licensed and have completed the necessary training and certificate as required by Boston Public Health Commission. We're going to have a print area reception, cleaning area, all facility requirements, like separate areas for sterilization, tattooing and client consultations are separate. We're going to have just six work zone and usually we have just one to clients a day, they're not going to take all the time there. And also we have architect representatives. Can we please let her participate? She's Sophia. Hi. Yes, hi. I've done the recent plans for this. For this building and I could just testify to the fact that there is, it's an existing unit and there is two means of egress. One is shown at the top of the page to the right and one to the right out to the main area that goes down out of the building. The three or four units that are on this building on the first floor are all commercial retail or office use. Great. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Hearing none may have fully tested money. Madam Chair, members of the board, Siggy Johnson with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. This apple can completed the ONS community process. We held in a butters meeting on April 22nd and it's our understanding that the St Vincent's floor and neighborhood association was made aware of this proposal as well. The butters meeting for this proposal was very likely attended with that we defer to the judgment of the board. Thank you. Madam, we have no way to say I'm sorry. Thank you. May I have a motion? I'm sure I like to perform a motion of approval. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Stambridge. Yes. Ms. Bethe-Barrasa. Yes. Chair votes yes. The motion carries. Good luck. Next we have case B.O.A. 157-6558 with the address of 118 F Street. If the applicant and whether represents present with their explains to the board, please. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Yes, sir. Madam Chair and fellow board members. My name is David Winnick and I'm here tonight to present a or a friend of mine to assist him with this two family building and one of the lower unit apartments is we're seeking to essentially move a bedroom from the first floor which is facing Broadway to the basement and provide adequate rest for that bedroom. Reason for the application is that the Broadway which is about a block and a half away is very loud for this one bedroom. So this move would greatly improve the livability of this unit. This is a 1500 square foot one that I've shown here in the plans. So essentially moving it from the front as you can see here on the bottom right to the back of the building. By doing so the additional new address required you rest would be essentially a new patio door. You dress off to the rear with a set of full stairs and provide adequate light and safety for this for the divas. We had a neighborhood association so actually we had a city sponsored meeting back in March where there was no attendance unfortunately and the city side neighborhood association is aware of the change of no opposition. They're currently not meeting for such projects to provide feedback on but overall talking to several neighbors. The neighborhood providers have been very supportive. Thank you. So is there anything currently in the basement or are you introducing? There is currently the space is in office. Currently is as an office space and living area. So it's a more of a change of use and it's like the additional living space is going to be closed. Any other questions from the board? You're doing none. May I public testimony? Madam Chair members of the board. Sigi Johnson with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. This applicant completed the ONS community process. We hosted an a butters meeting on the 16th of April at which no concerns were raised. The applicant was also in contact with the active civic group in this area the city side neighborhood association and no concerns were raised by that group. With that we defer to the judge went over the board. Thank you. We have no reason. Sorry. Good afternoon Madam Chair the members of the board. This is Laura Toledano from Council of his office and he will like to go record and support. Thank you. Thank you. Does that may have a motion? Madam Chair I'd like to perform a motion of approval. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Is better braza. Yes. Chair votes yes. The motion carries. Good luck. Thank you all. Next we have case BOA 154 8 7 1 9 with the address of 293 Northampton Street. If the applicant can do what they represent as present will they please apply? Good afternoon Madam Chairwoman and board members. My name is Christopher Kennedy of the Kennedy Law Office at 132 Lincoln Street. We represent Northampton Parking LLC. So the parking lot of 293 Northampton Street. We are seeking to extend the current use as a parking lot for a fee for 18 vehicles with one hand to cap parking space. Premises are at this time not suited for development or any other purpose. The continued use of the premises as a public parking lot for a fee would be the benefit to the neighborhood by providing off street day and night time parking. Additionally the parking facility will not create a series hazard to vehicles or pedestrians and accommodate the ever increasing demand for off street parking spaces by residents visitors and employees to the south end. I'd like to thank the ONS city boss and lazy on Asher Jean-A, the Claremont neighborhood association and the Columbus Avenue and Mee Zion Church for their support. And I'm happy to answer any questions you may have. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Hearing none, may I have public testimony? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, I'm honored to meet the mayor's office of neighborhood services. This time the mayor's office would defer to the judgment board, some back information in the community process with the applicant to circulate flyers to a budget within three hundred feet. And not hear any feedback. They went on to meet with the Claremont neighborhood association, which offered their support for the proposal, feeling and provides critical parking for residents and businesses and what they feel is a very congested neighborhood. Without deferred to the board this time, thank you. Anyone else? I have no raised hands. Thank you. Thank you, ma'am. Motion? Madam Chair, I'd like to put forward a motion of approval with a provisal that the plans be submitted for PPD and design review for site planning, paying special attention to the fence, landscaping, and sidewalk material. Third second. Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Ms. Bethe-Barraza. Yes. Chair votes yes. The motion carries. Thank you. Thank you. Next we have case B081548439 with the address of 111 to 113 H Street with the applicant and or their representative budget. Will they explain the case of board? Yes. Thank you. Good afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the board. Adam Barnowski, and I'm here for the applicant with the address of 225 State Street. I'm here on behalf of the applicant, Shree Kenno Inc. doing business as Jamie's Variety. With me on Zoom is Andy Patel, who's the owner and operator. The retailer is located at 1111 11 138 Street in South Boston on the northwest corner of H Street and East 5th Street. It's in the MFR local services sub-district on the ground floor of the mixed-use building. So we're here to seek a modification from the board's decision 966578 from 2019, which granted the liquor store use at this site and included a proviso that beer and wine would be limited to one cooler with two doors. The goal here is to remove the proviso and allow the retailer to continue to operate as a local convenience store, but with a flexibility to provide a better inventory and variety of beer, wine and spirits in addition to the grocery and convenience items that are popular with the neighborhood. When the board first approved this use, while there was significant support for the appeal, the proviso was added to address some concerns of the neighbors, which existed at the time about a new retailer selling alcohol in the neighborhood. Now since that time over five years ago, not only has there been no violations or issues related to the sale of alcohol, but the applicant has proven itself as an amenity for the neighborhood, and there has been overwhelming support for the business and the application before you today. There will be no other changes to the business or its hours of operation. The applicant has not and will not serve nips or single sale alcoholic beverages. The planner remains to operate in the same manner that's indeed the neighborhood with the host of groceries and daily household staples. We did conduct community outreach here, not with ONS, a meeting in March that was well attended. It's also worth noting that in conjunction with this application, the licensing board grant to the Alphans request to upgrade the license from beer and wine to all alcohol and it's public hearing after it's public hearing on May 14th. So with that, happy to answer your questions that we're going to have. Thank you. Thank you. No questions from me. Any questions from the board? Here in None, you may have public testimony. Madam Chair, members of the board, Siggy Johnson with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services, ONS hosted in a butters meeting for this proposal on March the 13th. That was very well attended over 20 constituents, verbalized support for the proposal due to the good reputation of the proponent as a upstanding citizen and business operator. The Gate of Heaven Neighborhood Association did not require a separate appearance from the proponent due to the strong community support during the butters meeting. Our office received nine letters in support of this proposal and with that, we defer to the judgment of the board. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon, Madam Chair, and members of the board. This is Laura from Consul of the Lens Office. He would like to go on record and support, but he would like to respectfully request that the proponent restrict the use of miniature single bottles that continue to present significant quality of life and trust. We will issue strong self-impostive thinking. Thank you. I have no additional waste dance thanks. Would that may I have a motion? Madam Chair, I'd like to put for a motion of approval. I have a second. Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Ms. Betapuraza. Yes. Chair also votes yes. The motion carries. Thank you. Next, we have case V.O.A. 1262365 with the address of 18 Colious Farm. If the applicant and what they represent is present, please explain the case. Okay. Hi, you want to meet yourself? If you want to Mr. Pousel? Sorry. Anya. Anya. Are you on two devices? There's an echo. You may want to get off one of them. Yes, sorry. Can you hear me? Yes. Yes. Hi, my name is Madal Sayah to it and I'm here with Neil Kennedy with the owners of 18 Colious Park. We are the ones doing the trying to do the additional rooms on the house to do a third story. We just needed for additional space for family and because there's a shortage of housing in the city, we're just trying to get the additional space. Okay. Are there questions from the board? Hearing none, may I have public testimony? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor, Newman with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This time, the mayor's also referred to the judgment of this board. Some back information on the community process. Previously, the applicant held and butters being with the office of the neighbor of the services some years ago. Coming back to us this year, we had them circulate a subcommittee flyer to a bottle is within 300 feet. We did not hear any negative feedback or concerns that we're aware of. We're also in touch with the local civic association, which felt comfortable with proposal as well without deferred to the board at this time. Thank you. Thank you. We have no way to answer. That may have a motion. Madam Chair, I'd like to perform a motion of approval. Madam Chair, I have a second. Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Is better browser. Yes. Chair also votes yes. The motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Thank you. Next, we have cases. The away 1542663. The address of the 11th Adam Street. If the applicant can draw their representative's presence, please respond to the board. Yes. Good afternoon. And thank you, member of the board. My name is Winkle's Martin. Along with the Deolinda Martin's. We have a single multi-use family on 11th Adam Street. The top floor, which we want to extend the and raise the top floor for an additional living space. And we hopefully would like to have this go through. We have gone through the bottles meeting and the community meetings. And so far, all been supported and no concern. And that's why we are present to hear decisions. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Hearing none, may I have public testimony? Hello, Madam Chair and members of the board. That this time, the Mayor's Office of the Neighborhood Service would like to defer to the decision of the board. The applicant had an a butters meeting on the 24th of April. No, a butters were in attendance. I got some support in through email from a butters. And the Meeting House Hills Civic Association voted to approve the project. At this time, the Mayor's Office of the Neighborhood Service is with what would like to defer to the decision of the board. Thank you. We have no raised hands at the moment. With that, may I have a motion? And Chair, I'd like to perform a motion of approval. I have a second. Certainly. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. This better browser. Yes. Chair also votes yes. The motion carries. Thank you very much. Good luck. Next case is POA 157 8198. The address of 8 AC Street. Yeah, we can't do that. Representative President, the position is fine. Good evening. Members of the board. This is David Higgins, the owner of 8 AC Street. My address of 20 of 12 play in street, the register. I'd just like to give a quick overview of this property 8 AC Street. I also have my architect, Tim Sheehan, if you have the board of any questions. A number of years ago, the board approved a building at the front of this 8 AC Street, which was 1449, Paj Parc Gav. And we went through intensive ZBA design review meetings. And the final outcome of the design for front building was absolutely amazing. And in order to conform with the front building, we need to change, we're going to change the design of the rear building to conform with the front building. So we want to basically take the roof off it, make additional living space in the attic and square it off. So all the buildings conform to be the same. Each unit is approximately a thousand square feet, their tree bedrooms. The reason we're doing tree bedrooms is we're getting a lot of people asking us for tree bedrooms, the front units are two bedrooms. We have unbelievable amount of people inquiring and looking for tree families for families that go to the school, to the charter school next door. So we decided we'd make this a tree unit building to accommodate them. As far as variances, we hadn't really gone outside the envelope of the house, so the variances are all existing. We're not going over the 35 feet. Pretty much that's my presentation. If you have any questions, members aboard Tim Sheen can talk in regards to design or the layout. But I leave it to you. Thank you. Thank you. Questions from the board. Okay, you're none. May I have public testimony? Madam Chair, members of the board, call on our newman with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. This time the mayor is obviously deferred to the judgment of this board. Some background information in the community process, ONS hosting the butters, meaning on April 10th, 2024. Afterwards, the applicant went on to meet with the High Park Neighborhood Association on May 2nd. The High Park Neighborhood Association expressed support for the proposal. With that, we'll refer to the board at this time. Thank you. Thank you. Any other raise stands? No, no additional raise stands. Would that have motion? Madam Chair, I'd like to put for a motion of approval with the PDA design review. There are a second. Second. Mr. Stumberidge. Yes. Is better browser. Yes. Chair also votes yes. The motion carries. Thank you very much. Have a good evening. Thank you. Next, we have case VOA 158 9504 with the address of 130 Central Avenue. If the applicant and the lawyer representative is present, would they please explain? Yes, Mr. Stumberidge. Good afternoon, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Attorney Derek Small. I have a business address of 51 Dobson Grove. Today, we're here seeking relief to create Austria Parking for two vehicles. Our loan violation is side yard setback, which would be on the right hand side. The side yard setback requirement is 10 feet. And we are at the smallest point. We're at four and a half feet. And it's against the existing building. And so it's a pre-existing not conforming violation. I'll stop there and open up to any questions that the board may have. It is straightforward. Okay. Questions from the board? What's existing now? Is it just open space? And so you're going to ask for all the open papers. Yes, we're putting the permit will paper down. And the family needs that they just had, they're growing family. They just had a couple of additional kids. So they're looking to create the Austria Parking, to be able to get it out of their house. What's your curb cut dimension? We don't have a curb cut yet. There's no existing curb cut. We will be applying to the public worst department for approximately eight or 10 foot curb cut. Okay, because right now I do see one that's existing on that survey. It looks like there's a curb cut right now existing. Am I reading that correct? Do you mean to the right on the Google Maps? I see a driveway, but I don't know. At the double-up survey, I see a curb existing. There's no existing curb cut to the left of the property. Oh, okay. So who owns the property to the right of it, where there seems to be a curb cut and parking? That's a separate lot on the other side. That doesn't exist. The curb cut doesn't exist over there. So what is the right hand side? Yes, I'll swipe it. On the right hand side, it's a big a lot. And so that curb cut where it says, yes, thank you. The existing curb cut, that is going to be closed up because there is a development project that has been approved on that site already. So that curb cut where you're referring to, I'm a sped up arousers going to be closed. Okay. So what they just proposed curb cut. So it's not existing. You're going to propose it on that site. That's correct. Okay. That's what confused me. Okay. I didn't see that note. Yeah. And can you clarify what are the parking allowances right now? I see cars parked on the street. So is it residential? Is it just anybody who is it open parking? It's open parking. And again, we're directly across from high park high school. And so there's usually some issues with regard to parking, especially during school year. With regard to parking on the street because the teachers take up a lot of the spaces on the street. Okay. Well, we obviously we know. BPD's recommendation is denial. I know you're going to ask me that. It's better for us. So I'll just say it. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, do you know in terms of the proposed curb cut, are you going to make it 10 feet? Probably 10 feet. The smallest possible curb cuts are that we can access the property. So if it's eight feet, we will go eight. But if it's 10, then it will be no more than 10. Yeah. I mean, I would love to hear your feedback, norm and and Madam Chair in regards to. You know, it's it seems like the the lot next to it has a curb cut. I mean, there's it's very far back. I can imagine open space in the rear of the parking space. I don't think you need to be that deep. So you allow for some green space. True. I would love to hear your thoughts, Norm and Madam Chair. I mean, I would like to be consistent when we talk about curb cuts. And in general, you know, when there is other available parking, it looks like if you go further down away from the school, there's parking on both sides of the street. Maybe I'm misunderstanding that. I see cars on the other side. So I'm a little reluctant. Norm, how do you feel? If there's a if if it's too accommodated growing family, I can go along with them. If if it's not taking much parking off of the off of the street itself. So I mean, now I just wanted to have a conversation with you. I think I'm good. I can perform a motion. I think I still need public testimony. Yep. Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor Newman with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. This time the mayor is offered to defer to the judgment of this board. ONS host and a butters being on February 7th. The applicant then went on to meet with the Hyde Park neighborhood association on April 4th of 2024. Civic association was supportive of the proposal. Now we've got what deferred to the board at this time. Thank you. Thank you. You don't have anyone else. I have no additional way of fans. Okay. Would that may have a motion? Madam Chair, I'm going to prefer a motion of approval with a proviso that that BPDA does site plan reviews so that the two parking spaces are closer to the front to the front versus all the way to the rear to allow for a green open space behind the parking parking spaces. Yep. Okay, is there a second? Agreed and second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Ms. Betabraza. Yes. The chair will vote yes, the motion carries. Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Members of the board and Ms. Betabraza, we will do. We have planned on doing screening and buffering around the site anyway. So that's fine. Thank you very much. Next we have case of B08 1567349. The address of 30 to 32 is Etonia, Etonia Street. If the applicant and or their representatives present, they explain to the board, please. All right, Edward Lee or your wife is ahead of you. You're on can you raise your hand or meet yourself? Say Dan Shadid. No, say anybody's hands, guys. Well, then please keep moving forward. Okay. Next we have case B08 1597342. With the address of 21 Charlton Street. If the applicant and or their representatives present, what they explain to the board, please. Yes. Hello again, Madam Chair, members of the board, Mary Kate Campbell with the offering Drago and Tuscany on 11 Beacon Street. I'm here as well as the architect, Krish Drew, behalf of our client. So what had happened was this project went before the full ZBA at the main hearing on September 26, 2023 with a proposal to change the occupancy from three units to five units, renovate the existing building into a wreck two, three story. Additions for a total of five units and nine parking spaces. And the only violations were for use. At that time, the board did approve that proposal at above with provisos. And one of the provisos was that the project only have five parking spaces. So lowering the parking count added a parking violation. So that's why we're back here asking for additional relief. So the modification since then have been we did reduce the parking spaces from nine to five. And I'd be happy to take any questions or Chris can take any questions at this time. Thank you. Questions from the board? Okay, hearing none. May I have public testimony? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor Newman with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This time the Mayor is also deferred to the judgment of this board. As previously mentioned, this went through before zoning board of appeals. We had held in a butter speeding at the time. There was one resident on who would express some concerns regarding density. And then we went on to receive three letters in opposition, which the board should have access to. Just concerns about density and also potential loss of what they felt was a historic home. After approved and came back with the reductions in parking, we had the applicant circulate flyers to about as within 300 feet. I would do not receive any new comments. And I know that the all-sensitivic association I think would have liked this applicant to go back to them with the smaller amount of parking. I think they might have submitted a letter as well to the zoning board of appeals without deferred to the board at this time. Thank you. Thank you. I'm sure we have no waste hands. Okay, and I do want to acknowledge that I think your colleague, Mr. Mendoza, did submit some letters, emails of opposition prior to the hearing. Any other questions from the board? Madam Chair, I find the proposal to be a little bit bigger than what we usually see in the subcommittee. So I would encourage that we look at this project with a full board. Okay, so may I have a motion? Is that your... Madam Chair, I'd like to perform a motion to defer this case to the full board. Thank you. May I have a second? Sure. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Ms. Betapraza. Yes. Chair votes, yes, the motion carries. Does Samantha, do you need to give her a date at this moment? Where's there? I would punth this over to Steph and ask if we are able to put this on for Tuesday since it's advertised as a recommendation or if this would have to be re-advertised on a new date. I don't know if Steph is available. Tim, can you hear me? Yes. Now I can hear you now. Are you calling the case for Edward Lee? For 21 Holton, this is being the board is moving to defer to a full board. Do we have to completely re-advertise or are we able to do this Tuesday? I'll postpone it and we'll put it on for Tuesday. Okay, perfect. Thank you. So we'll have a date of Tuesday, if this coming Tuesday, Madam Chair. Okay. Great. Okay, so this will be heard June 18th. That is correct, yes. Isn't our next, sorry, maybe I'm missing. Is there an exporting apologize? I think it was after. The 20th, Madam Chair. Yes, exactly. It is. June 25th, this will be heard. Yes, ma'am. Thank you. All right, thank you. And Edward Lee should be joining us soon. Okay. Loginna now. Okay. And that case will still move on to the rediscussion case. It was 5 PM. That is case BOA 1552488 with the address of 340 Baker Street. If the applicant and other representatives present, will they please explain to the board? Yes. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Just go. Do we have the proponent? I don't see. With them. He should be logging in right now. This is loginna. Okay, perfect. Okay, thank you, Stephanie. You're welcome. Thank you. Stephanie, do you see them joining? Should we move back to the other case? Yeah. Whoever is ready first. You can just move on to Baker. We are on Baker. I think we are on Baker. Aren't we on Baker, Mr. Stembridge? Yes, we are. And we were also waiting for 30 to 30. Right. So is the proponent for Baker 340 Baker on or are they not? Doesn't look like they are. I see a fan raised Madam Chair. I'm going to try to unmute them. Okay. Hello. So at the owner of Baker and. What is the expectation means we were asked to come to the town meeting. But I think is it the town where you present this? Like we went to a couple of town meetings and it was a problem. We were told we were going to go. I'm sorry, sir. Are you are you presenting for 340 Baker Street? If so, can you walk us through your presentation? No, we needed a variation and I think it was a pro. So we were asked to come into this meeting. For the final approval from the town. Hello. Hello guys. Whoever is presenting for 340 Baker Street. That is what we're presenting. That is what we're hearing right now. So we need you to walk us through your presentation. And you are here because you have variances that need to be approved. Hello guys. Can you hear me? Are you presenting for 340 Baker? Yes, I am. I have some technical problems here to look to my computer. Okay. So yes, please are you ready to proceed? Yes, I am. Okay. Thank you. Please let us know who you are and. I'm in. Peter Gimari's behalf of Brusa Construction. I'm a South Border Massachusetts. He is presenting 340 Baker Street. It's existing to family. That would be converting to two condos. And the change that's being that's being made to the property as we're going to be adding some square footage on the second floor unit. Which will be on the attic space. And adding square footage on the basement for the lower floor unit. And also if you look on the page to the right, you see that for the second floor, which will be the second. This is a reverse. Progress. And just pretty much it. Questions from the board. Are you hearing none, uh, we have public testimony. Madam chair members of the board,Monkey Johnson with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. in a butters meeting for this proposal on January 17th, where a butters raised concerns about various aspects of the design, including the location of the porch. Following this, a butters meeting, the proponent agreed to make changes to their proposal. We are in possession of one letter of opposition from in a butters also raised additional concerns about trash issues and road and control issues that the property. The West Roxbury neighborhood council zoning committee voted to support this proposal and with that we defer to the judgment of the board. Thank you. And Madam Chair, we have no raised hands. Thank you. Would that may I have a motion? Madam Chair, I'm going to put forward a motion of approval with a provisional that BPDA undergoes design review, paying special attention to the third story, um, uh, massing so that it works with this neighboring context. Is there a second? Sir Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Is better braza. Yes. Chair votes yes, the motion carries the law. Okay. So with that, we'll return to the case BOA 156 7349, the address of 30 to 32 Antonio Street, if the applicant and or the representative is present, probably ready to explain the case. Jessica Edward Lee is on. He's on his attendee. Okay. Once again. Okay. I see. Okay. Edward, I just made you a pan, um, made your panels. You could press Excel. Oh, you want a ten. Yeah. Is that you? Is that you, Edward? Yeah, that's me. Yeah. Okay. Perfect. Yeah. Well, we can hear you. You can go ahead with your presentation. Okay. Yeah. Basically, we, we, um, last year we did the first four and second four veneneration. Now we go in to, um, to finish the basement and the basement going to be connected with the first, first four apartment. So we're still too family. Um, not, no exterior, no change. And, uh, uh, well, so yeah, just want to finish the basement. There's a, there's a finished sound bathroom. Overly did it. Uh, it's, it's, it's been there, uh, since last year, um, and it's legal. It's on a join before. Uh, this time the owner wants to do a, uh, a three bedroom downstairs. Yeah. Uh, just according to what we percent for the join. Um, and then the, um, the fire escape windows. And that's about it. Any other questions? So just to clarify, is the basement currently occupied for any type of livable spaces? Oh, there, there, there were, uh, there, uh, uh, it, it, it is have some drywall and some kind of wall over there. But last year when we demoed with the, uh, permission of the inspector, we demoed it already under, under, under basement. Yeah, there was some old drywall there, couple of wall that was there. And recently we just locked it out, locked it out and, uh, we built no one. Yeah, nothing. What's the, what's the current, what's the ceiling height? It's a current. Um, yeah, when I was empty, what, what one existing bathroom? I'm sorry. What's the ceiling height of the basement? Oh, city height. It's a good height. It's seven feet. Okay. Are there questions from the board? Hearing none, may I have public testimony? Madam Chair, members of the board, Sigi Johnson with the mayor's office of neighborhood services, this applicant completed the ONS community process. We hosted an abouters meeting on April 26, where minor concerns were raised regarding parking and rodent issues. This applicant also met with the Austin Civic Association, who submitted a letter of support requesting a proviso that no building code relief be granted. Uh, with that, we defer to the judgment of the board. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, we have no raised the hands for the record. Would that may have a motion? Madam Chair, I'd like to before a motion of approval with a, with a proviso that no building code relief be granted. May I have a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Ms. Betapraza. Yes. Chair votes yes. The motion carries. Good luck. All right. Thank you all and see some of you on the 25th. Okay. So we're, we're all set? Yes, sir. Okay. Also, we should have a, um,