 you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you we Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Langel. Yes. Mr. Barbraza. Yes. This we will. Yes. Well, it's yes, the motion carries. Next, we have the original offer to your case, which is given to the 9th, 3rd. This is case BOA 167. 7952, the address of 95 business street. Is the applicant the end of what they represent of the present? What they have to explain to the board. Good morning. I'm Sharon members of the board. I'm Matt Wheeler, a few architecture representing the applicant. We have originally submitted this and called for the zoning process as an ALT permit, but we have been attending to all three other single family and two two family. We received approval and after approval, we walked through, we thought it was in January, and you recommended we replace the foundation. It exists in the rebel foundation. Excuse me. So that in turn required us to switch from an ALT to an ERT, which triggered a front yard setback violation, a new front yard setback violation. You can see from my documents here, they previously approved setback for the front porch was 2.7 feet. And we submitted, upon the request of IEC, we submitted a modal setback, a wide-minute study, which allowed us to set the porch at three feet. So we adjusted the design, so the porch is set at three G-back. Everything else with the approved design would remain the same, including the footprint, the height, all the setbacks. So that's how the cause of that. I think we meet all the required setbacks. And I think that's it. Thank you. Questions from the floor? Sure and done. Is there a motion? Madam Chair, given that there's no new zoning violations, I want to perform a motion of approval. Are there a seconds? Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Turner. Yes. Mr. Lainon. Yes. Ms. Barbrazo. Yes. Ms. Wielow. Yes. Chair, well it's just the motion carries. Good luck. Thank you very much. Next we'll move on to the hearing schedule for 9.30 a.m. Before we begin, we will ask if there are any request for withdrawals or deferrals on the hearing schedule for 9.30. Hearing none, we'll move on to the first two companion cases, which are case B.O.A. 1785030, with the address of 170 West Canton Street, along with that we have case B.O.A. 1782427, with the address also with the address of 170 West Canton Street. If the applicant and what they represent on the present, will they please explain the cases to the board? Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. Mark LePas, the cast lost 75 Arlington Street in Boston. I represent the B.O.A. and Rachel Cargo, who are the homeowners for the single family property in the south end. We are here today for two very routine and straightforward requests towards owning relief, both in the form of conditional use permits. No variances are requested. The first is the familiar Article 32 groundwater recharge system, as this involves a substantial rehabilitation of an existing structure, and we have received approval from Boston Water and Sour Commission, submitted our no harm letter, and the B.O.A. C. Article 32 compliance letter, which are all part of the record. The second conditional use permit is pursuant to Article 64 Section 9 of the south end zoning code, which requires a conditional use permit for extensions into the rear yard, which otherwise satisfy all the dimensional requirements of the code, and it's important to start there. What is being proposed here is a three-story bump out extension, if you will, into the rear yard. At the garden level, and two floors above that. So three floors of three foot bump out by 18 foot and width, or 55 square feet per floor, for a total of 155 square feet being added to an existing family residence, which represents an addition of 3% of the gross floor area of this property. Significantly, this lot size is over 3,100 square feet, which is about 50% larger than all of the adjoining lot sizes. Here's a slide that represents what's going on in the backyard here. So the smaller portion that is hatched is the rear bump out, and then showing on the third floor is a rear deck, six foot rear deck supported by cantilever brackets, which of course is consistent with the design standards of the planning department and the Southern landmarks commission. And then you can see there's a huge rear yard, not only do we satisfy all the dimensional requirements, but the rear yard setback here is 20, and we have about 38 feet, even with the bump out. The two parking spaces along the side of the rear yard are part of the lot and are existing, and I will provide parking so we don't need to use any portion of the rear yard for parking. There's no side setback requirement in the South End. Nevertheless, we have pulled the sides of the rear extension away from the lot lines on both sides. We can satisfy all the dimensional requirements, and the initial proposal for this rear extension was the full five stories at the back of the building, but in response to community concerns during the process, we reduced it in scale by 40% removing two floors of the upper levels of the rear extension. It's important to note that we've already been to the Southern landmarks commission for all of the other work that's being done to this property on the exterior facade, and the Southern landmarks commission has approved the proposal. Also, there is a planning department memorandum on the record in this case that recommends approval and notes that the requests are consistent with the context of the neighborhood in terms of working with our direct debuts. We can directly and immediately debut our at 168 West Ken Street, which basically is the only butter that is attached to this building supports this proposal. On the opposite side is the, there's an alleyway where the parking is located, so there's only one direct and immediate butter that is physically attached to this building and that butter is in support. There is also, if we could stop at this slide, I'm going to have the architect address the design on this slide and the next slide, but I will turn to the building code appeal, which is the companion case before you. There is a roof deck proposed for this property, which has been approved by the landmarks commission and is not the subject of zoning relief, but is the subject of the building code appeal, and that is the familiar inconsistency between the zoning code Article 64 Section 34. Section 34, which requires that access to a roof deck be by hatch and the conflict with the building code, which requires a head house. So we are seeking relief from the building code requirement of a head house so that we may install a hatch for access to the roof deck consistent with Article 64 and consistent with the requirements of the South End Lamarx Commission. So that is the building code issue. I covered the Article 32 issue, the Article 64 conditional use permit, and will reserve the balance of my comments for after public comment. But at this point, I just like to turn it over to Zach Malay, our architect to talk about the design of the rear extension. As you can see there is very minimal and determinous in scale. The rear deck supported by Cantilever and Zach and to explain the architectural philosophy behind this, which is familiar. And again, consistent with literally hundreds of similar such rear extensions and decks in the South End that has been previously approved. So Zach Malay, please. Mark, thank you for morning chair. Good morning. Rest of the board members on this page as Mark alluded to earlier. You'll see in the red cloud here that the original proposal was to bring the addition all the way up. But after a substantial amount of time with neighbors in the community, we've decided to reduce that substantially by 40% bring it down to just the bottom three floors of the residents, which are the most used part of this house. So as Mark said, there's no different language that we're proposing here. It is a three foot addition of the rear. And we're going to be cladding that all in a black paneled, siding material. And then again, we do have the six foot balcony again that is very typical with inconsistent with all the context, both on this alley as well as the rest of the context within the South End. If you go to page 18, the next slide. And if we stop here, the shows on the left side here, this is the existing building. And on the right is what we are proposing as that addition. So again, the architectural language here is no different than what we see with the rest of the alleyway of this particular block in the South End. So we are proposing historically accurate, divided light windows up at the top. We have a series of double and windows. There is a small balcony on top of the new addition. But again, you can see that this addition in relation to the whole building. And if you walk up down this particular alley is very much within context. It is very minimal with zero impact to the abutting neighbors during the neighborhood process. We did provide a series of sun shadow diagrams to prove that this is so insignificant. And there is no effect to the abutting neighbors of the neighborhood in the alley here. Madam Chair, that concludes our presentation of the issues. Thank you. And so just to confirm, the bump out is three feet. And then the deck, which I see seems to only be on that third level is another rack. The third level here, projecting six feet. And then this balcony that you see at the top, that is on top of the new addition. So that's not going any further than that. The protrusion outside the three feet is the typical six foot balcony that we see on the third floor. Okay. I know that we're detected perhaps, Attorney Locasse, you mentioned there are others in that alleyway that have a similar condition. Is that you kind of go into a little more detail on that because obviously you're aware we've received a lot of letters in support and an opposition and opposition talks about the speed. Not in not consistent and you said it's consistent. So I just want to understand a little bit more. Yes. So if you go scroll down to the rest of the presentation and the appendix, we did provide again these are some of the shadow studies. But if you go down to the last three or so pages, we documented all of the rear buildings that abut this alley. So you can see on the first slide image here on the left, that is our building. That's on the right side of that first image. And really as you just march along the alley here, you know, we can see here at 164 or 166 West Canton. You know, there's a garage that's extended more than what we are proposing. And then keep scrolling down. There's an addition here at, you know, between 162 and 160. They have the same balcony and even more so as we go through 146 and 144 West Canton right here, you see both. There is a rear garage addition at the lower level. And then at 144, we have a very similar condition where there is an extension coming off this building is going from property line to property line. We're not doing that. We are actually bringing it in about a foot and half on either side. But you can see they do have a rear balcony on top of their addition. In addition to that, they then have another six foot balcony up at the top. We're just proposing the three foot with the six foot. And as you go down the rest of the images, you can see that there are a series of rear extensions that have been added. Again, here we have something at 153. That right on the bottom left here that's been added. And again, as we march along 161, 163 West Brookline. And then directly behind us, the last set of images here on the last page. You can see that at 183, 185 right directly behind us, there is an addition that's also happened with a rear balcony attached to that. So it's a matter of chair. That's just this alley if we conducted the same study throughout the South Van, which is all governed by Article 64, Section 9 of the very same conditions. We can literally come up with 100 such images to show you also significantly the addition of three feet extension plus the six foot deck does not change anything. It's still a conditional use permit because we otherwise satisfy all the dimensional requirements. We have plenty of rear yard setback almost twice as much as that is required. We were adding side yard setbacks where none are required. So we comply with all the dimensional requirements. And as much as there may be noise in the background, about three plus six, somehow converts it into something else, it does not. The zoning code refusal does not so indicate nor does the planning department raise any concerns whatsoever. And in fact, recommends approval citing the consistency with the neighborhood. And we think that on the on the zoning and on the facts and on the law that this is entirely consistent with cases that have appeared before you countless hundreds of times. Thank you. Questions from the board. Sorry, I just want to make sure that the landmark commission actually has reviewed the rear because I know that it's been involved with the whole project. But I just want to make sure that for the record, the South landmark commission has reviewed the extensions. Well, they saw it but the landmark doesn't have any jurisdiction over the rear facade except above the corner slying visible from public way. So routinely, the Southern landmarks commission does not review these, but what typically happens in these cases is that this board on granting condition use permits recommends planning department design review. And that is where the whole design standards for rear facades has emerged is at the planning department rather than the landmarks commission because they don't have jurisdiction over rear facades. Okay, thank you. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Hello, Madam Chair, members of the board. Excuse me, I'm still recovering from the flu everybody. And having years to all my name is Eva Jones representing the mayor's office and neighborhood services regarding 171st, Canton Street, our office would like to express opposition to this proposal. A community process was conducted, including in a better meeting held on Monday, October 27th, which was very well attended by the South end community with upwards of 50 neighbors present. The majority of attendees expressed the opposition to the proposal, particularly the director butters in the area who cited concerns about proposed the proposed extension of the fence to the property line and the resulting impacts on the shared use of the alleyway. These concerns included access for residents as well for snow plows trash collection vehicles and emergency vehicles. The residents also raised concerns shared by others regarding the encroachment of rear additions on neighbors privacy and the precedent that a proposal of this nature would set in historic neighborhood. There was some support expressed in the meeting with a few residents stating that they felt the project was reasonable and wishing we have to get well in the process. The office received 38 letters in opposition approximately 30 of which were from director butters encroaching her echoing many of the same concerns related in the meeting related to zoning precedent and the historic character of the neighborhood. I've also received a letter in opposition from representative marians office for reflecting the community's concerns and expressing his own regarding zoning precedent and the impact that on this type of proposal on a neighborhood as dense as the South end. The office has also received 24 letters in support. The proposal was reviewed by the pilot block neighborhood association which voted to oppose it. The association submitted a formal letter to the board stating that pvna opposes a proposal because it far exceeds the ZBA's long standing six foot rear yard extension and standard by introducing a 9 foot multi level addition significantly impacts the butter's light privacy and alley conditions by increasing building mass and human presence. And such a dangerous precedent that undermines consistently enforced South end zoning standards and invite a similar development along the alleyway at this time the mayor's office and neighborhood services but like to formally express opposition to this proposal. Thank you everyone for your time and consideration. Thank you. Thank you. Next, Madam Chair, we have a corner film. Grimmie, please, that you have 90th person. Please, thank you. Good morning, Madam Chair and members of the board. Thank you for taking the time to hear me today. Make my remarks very brief. My name is Connor Finn. I'm here on behalf of state representative John Moran who represents the ninth Suffolk district and is a long time resident of the South end. Representative Moran respectfully urges the board to deny this proposal due to its significant departure from long standing zoning standards and an already densely developed area. He believes a more balanced and appropriate design is achievable. That means the applicant's goals while preserving the character and the ability of the South end. Thank you so much for your time and offer consideration on this matter. Thank you. Next, we have a Christensen Monalie. Good morning, Madam Chair and members of the board. Happy New Year, Christian Seminelli, passing Robert Russell. We have both key card winners from the applicant. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you so much. Next, we have... Let me see what's happening. People who are participating already in the city. We have an end blade. Please, if you can meet yourself, you have 90 seconds. Hi. Thank you very much. My name is Moe Blair. I work with the Pilot Lock Neighbors Association in development issues. I'm in a butter on 100 feet away. I can see it from my back window. Hopefully you'll give me a little more time than 90 seconds, since I have two functions here. I think David did a great job. You've all heard the opposition clearly to this proposal. Extremely challenging proposal for the neighborhood. Nearly unanimous objection to the proposal. I would put that asterisk on the presentation is that nearly everybody that I've spoken to, I can throw out this whole process. It has been opposed to this and the reasons you've heard already. Everybody knows at the most basic level that deck extensions above the first floor are limited to six feet to limit their impact on neighbors. This is the 6.9 feet from the line of houses. Also decks about the first floor require candle-everd support. I would see through railings to minimize the impact, minimize the presence. This one comes with a three-story 20-foot wide building extension. It's excessive, much larger than the 50-square feet that would be as of right. Not appropriate. We identified all of the nuisances to private, light-nare, privacy-light-nare building density. The privacy is particularly important. We can see our neighbors decks outside of our windows here. So I think that's incredibly important to know. The precedents that are being offered to the chair's concerns. No others in this alley are in this similar condition that didn't pre-exist these zoning rules. These zoning rules were put in place to prevent the impacts that these types of extensions have on a butter's privacy, light-nare, all these things. The importance of keeping this precedent clearly on view given the helpful page in their write-up about how there's other ones in the neighborhood that make this appropriate. I want to make sure I double click on that. If this product is granted approval for a three-foot extension, what would stop the next door neighbor who, at 168 Westcain, has already gotten an application in front of ISD from doing the same thing? What if they wanted a deck that extended nine feet so that it wasn't less large than the one next door to them? You can see how the precedent is very important in establishing standards here. The neighborhood does not want to get bogged down in these issues. I'm sure the board doesn't either. So it's very important, certainly, that we protect these standards so we don't have to go through this every few months. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks, Madam Chair. We have the A-Casparian. Please. You have 90 seconds. Good morning, everybody. My name is David Casparian and I am the Director of Butter at 168 Westcain. The only directs butter from Michael and Rachel Cargo. And I fully support their efforts to renovate their house. They've been great in terms of their communication to me and others and very forthcoming about their intent and the process. It is my understanding that they have made several changes that were highlighted earlier in the presentation based on feedback from the neighborhood. From my perspective, this will only enhance the aesthetics of the neighborhood. I think it's very tastefully done and in line with other buildings. I don't think that the renovation has any adverse impact to me or the surrounding area. And I feel like they should be allowed to proceed with what they are proposing by right. Thank you. Okay. Next, we have somebody from the tennis section. Steve, a team, please. Can you please take Tari. Yes, senior. Yes, sir. This is the Reena Teme. We live at 191 Westpork, Westpork, in St. 170 Westcanton. Is the view outside of all of our review windows. We are back immediately on to it. And it's kind of interesting that the readers speak and talked about communication being great because despite being immediately opposite, we need nothing about this plan until after many letters of support from elsewhere in the neighborhood had already been submitted. So there were no efforts to share anything with us. The first we heard was of the neighborhood meeting. I also want to correct some facts or some things that Mark McCast had when he was talking, again, I think no one touched on this. Hundreds of similar things have been approved in the neighborhood. That is not true. Many of those were before the current planning regulations and those have been done since have mostly been considerably less than three feet. Secondly, no matter which way you slice it, 6 foot plus 3 foot equals 9 foot, it is not a small addition. It is three feet beyond what the said planning has traditionally approved. And dressing it up as three plus six doesn't change the fact it's a nine foot extension off the pack of the building. Also, it is not historically accurate. The whole wall of windows is not the way the back alleyway looks and has looked since the 1860s. Every house has two or three small windows on the back. So I just also want to set a code straight on that. And just, you know, and that's pretty much it. I just want to say, as immediate about this with a full on view of this every time we look at it out of our window, we're opposed to it because, you know, no stated very eloquently. I'm not going to repeat all that, but it does change the character of the neighborhood and it will set a precedent. Thank you. And next week of anyways. Thank you so much for having me. I live at my name is anyway. So I live at 166 West Canton. So I'm two doors down from 170. I'm staying my opposition to the proposal as well. Again, I don't want to reiterate everything that Noel already said, but I really worry about the precedent that this is going to set. I worry about the light. I worry about particularly the privacy. And I just want to know that, you know, it is the case that they're directed butter is in support of that. But he's really the only one. If you look at the attendees, there's so many people from West Canton from the from the alley and there's just an enormous opposition. He also has submitted the same, the same proposal. And so if this goes through and his goes through, he will have direct access to see right inside of my home. I worry about that happening. And then if the person on the other side of me does the same thing, I'll be tunneled in on both sides. So really impact how it feels to live inside of my house. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, we have one more person from the at the intersection. Hey, everyone. Can you hear me? Yes, ma'am. Okay, super. So my name is Rebecca Hornebuckle. I live at 154 West Canton just down from Annie who just spoke and really just went to second everything that those in opposition are associated. I would take issue with the idea that there is context for this. I'm looking across the alley out my kitchen window right now at a series of flat front. We recently under one of them, they shouldn't preserve the flat back of our own home. Sharing a front and a back alley with the proposal at 170 and now the proposal at 168. I would argue since a dangerous precedent for all the reasons that folks have mentioned, but hate to be tunneled in here, lose a privacy and just a beauty of hanging out with our neighbors and seeing the light and getting ventilation. So thank you for listening to my protest. Thank you. Madam Chair, there are two more people who raised the hand. I'll take these two more than we can proceed. Okay. We have Ingrid. Please, if you can hear yourself. In Ingrid, sure. If not, we can go with John. Please, if you can. I believe I have one. Okay. Ingrid. Yeah. We can hear you. My name is Ingrid Shagg. I live at 182. I'm Canton. I wanted to voice my opposition to this expansion and also say that it is very hard to be a young person and a child living here. I'm here. I'm here. I'm here. I'm here. I'm here. I'm here. I'm here. I'm here. I'm here. I'm here. I'm here. I'm here. I'm here. I'm here. I'm here. I'm here. I'm here. I'm here. I'm here. I'm here. I'm here. I'm here. I'm here. I'm here. I'm here. I'm here. I'm here. I'm here. I'm here. I'm here. I'm here. I'm here. I'm here. I'm here. I'm here. I'm here. I'm here. I'm here. I'm here. I'm here. I'm here. I'm here. I'm here. I'm here. I'm here. I'm here. I'm here. I'm here. I'm here. I'm here. I'm here. I'm here. I'm here. I'm here. I'm here. I John argument. I live at 163 west of Brooklyn! So I'm on the alley. I have a view of this house. I lived in this you know this house for 35 years and I'm opposed to this extension. I can see down the alley. I appreciate the charm and the design of these 200-year-old buildings with their rhythm of bay windows and platforms. And I think this will harm that charm, this will reduce the attractiveness and the desirability of all the houses on the alley. And mine included. And again, as Noel said, this is a nine-foot extension. Yes, there's President for six-foot decks, but there's no President for nine-foot extensions, three stories high. And the architect showed these projections of light, but he failed to mention any of the light coming from the north. He just projected from the south. And so this extension will shadow light from both directions. And again, as Noel and Annie mentioned, it puts a tunnel effect into the alley. So we have a 200-year-old historic neighborhood here. Once we lose this, it's gone forever. So I urge the council to not prove this. And let's preserve this neighborhood for future generations. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. The full cast? Yes. Briefly to us. Some of these points. I mean, in our case, it's, we made our points. But with respect to the comment by Ebah Jones of ONS regarding the fence in the backyard, shown on the site plan, fence number one is not an issue. It's not a zoning issue. Number two, during the community process, including the butter meeting that she hosted, my clients make concessions about the fence rounding it because they recognize the access point there. And that is something they're very much willing to continue to do and will do to ensure that no access is impeded. Nor would BTD or anyone else who reviews these plans permit a fence that would block access. We're actually agreeing to improve the condition of the existing fence. Number one, with respect to the butter at number 166, Westkin, she has the garage that projects out in the rear yard, including a large deck over the garage, which actually is the one thing that is inconsistent with the rest of the block. When you talk about precedent and harming the neighborhood, the comment about children in the neighborhood, my clients, our homeowners in the south end, have lived in the south end for over a decade, have three small children, and are intending to make this there forever home, which is why they're undertaking these renovations and expansions, to house comfortably house their family of five, including three children, so they are very much south end residents with children as well, who very much wish to make this there forever home, and have carefully undertaken that. On the channel about precedent, of course, this board understands that precedent is not recognized in deciding any case because every case is different. And what makes this case different is the lot size. This lot size is 3,100 square feet, which is at least 50% larger than all the other lots on this block, which are all about 2,000 square feet, and the extra breathing room back there, if you will, makes a difference. And alongside is on one side as an alley, and on the other side is an butter who supports us. There were 24 letters in support that does not constitute unanimous opposition, as has been said. There are people that do support this, and don't think that this is any different than the many, many, many, many, many, many similar projects like this, which I think is testament to the planning department issuing a simple one-page memo, recommending approval, because they've seen these hundreds of times before, literally, with that we conclude our case. Thank you. Other questions from the board? Yeah, I just want kind of clarification from BPD. Mr. Locass mentioned that Walson Lamar Commission approval is not needed, but on zoning viewer, I see that it does fall under historic district south of Lamar District. And so the BPD also mentioned in their notes that the project is subject to that review by the Walson Lamar Commission. So it seems like those that have spoken in front of us have concerns regarding the overall characteristics of the rear. And I believe that this can be kind of reviewed with the applicant under the Balson Lamar Commission, you know, following this process. And so I would like just to hear from BPD on our feedback, because we could add a perisal to ensure that that review does occur, but at least it would clarify the comment that was made by Mr. Locass, it does not fall under BLC review. Mr. Hampton, are you with us? Yes, thank you Madam Chair, members of the board, Jeff Hampton, City of Lawson Planning Department. It is true that the rear decks in the south end are not subject to BLC review. We typically, and historically, when decks have been added to the role houses in the south end, have made the recommendation that we review them, and that the decks I know wrong, no deeper than six feet in our bracket supported, that's always been our recommendation to the board and to the applicants when they have applied for this. So the decks themselves are not going to be subject to BLC review. But what about the extension? Your model for the extension? They would have to go to BLC for a determination, where BLC wants to review that is completely up to that. Can I speak to that a little bit? I'm going to leave on the legal issue, Hansi. The south end landmark commission guidelines and standards are very clear on what they do cover and what they don't. And I've had this issue countless dozens of times. With respect to rear facades, the only thing that is within their purview and jurisdiction is above the corner's line, i.e. roof decks. Anything below the corner's line in the rear, which is not facing a public way, is never subject to south end landmarks review. And whether it's just an extension or just a rear deck or some combination thereof, as Jeff Hampton said, those determinations are always covered by a proviso of this board for BPDA design review. That's typically where that process occurs, not at landmarks, because they don't have jurisdiction over it. Okay, thank you. Other questions from the board? You're done. I have a motion. Madam Chair, I would like to put for a motion of approval, but with BPD design review, so they can also take into account some of the concerns that were brought up in front of us. Is there a second in? Second. Mr. Burench. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Turner. No. Mr. Langham. Yes. Mr. Bettebraza. Yes. Ms. Wewell. Yes. Mr. Burench. Mr. Burench. The Chair votes no, but the motion carries. Next, we have case DOA 1773911, with the address of 269, on the north avenue. Is the applicant and when they represent a print, will they please point them? Hello. Yeah. I'm, I'm representing the applicant for 269, on the north avenue. You identify yourself? My name is Nicholas Highland. I work in construction, who is going to be the contractor on this project. Please proceed. So we are only rejected on Article 32 for the groundwater system. We have approved BWSC plans. We have submitted our no harm letter in our letter from BWSC. We intend to fully comply with the G-CON responsibilities. Okay. Are there questions from the board? Hearing none, ma'am, public testimony. Good morning, Madam Chair and members, C. Johnson, with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. Our office was planning to request a deferral for this application. The community process was not completed and the agenda lists a violation for a restricted roof structure district. But it's just come across the screen was a refusal letter for a G-CON only, which would not require a community process. So suppose I will leave it to the discretion of the board. But if there are, in fact, zoning issues at play here on S-relect requested deferrals of the community process could be completed. Thank you. I'll definitely have a concert. I was just being kind Mr. Hampton, way in. Yes, thank you, Madam Chair, members of the board, Jeff Hampton, City of Boston Planning Department. Back then, it's not an restricted roof structure district. So I think there was just an error on the refusal letter. So G-CON is the only reason why they're here. Okay. Thank you. Mr. Sennhelli? Yes, ma'am, Chair. Good morning, members of the board. I'm going to leave the board. Chris and Simon Allen, we have both G-CON letters from the applicant. Thank you. All right. Next, we have Alicia. Alicia Mox. Okay. I don't see. They heard we can't press anymore. So Joseph, find it from the attendee section. Yes. Can you all hear me? Yes, sir. All right. Good morning. Yes, I am direct a butter to 269 living at 273, com app. And three things. There has been zero communication about this addition. It just suddenly went up. It obstructs the view from our roof deck. Secondly, and third, it sets a dangerous precedent in which anyone can add a level. And the reason why we wouldn't be able to build a penthouse at 273, com app. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Ma'am, Chair, there is one more person. I think Batu, the person with the name Batu, why? Yep. Yes, sir. You can listen. Hi. I'm at 13 Gloucester right behind. Since 69, com. I'm just joining in to the gentleman who spoke before me. It will be obstructing my view of the mall and back bag. Just wanted to speak my words. But bad in there as well. Thank you. Thank you. Ma'am, Chair, there is one more person. Yes, glad. Ben, Ben to me. Benjamin iPhone, you can speak now. Can you hear me? We can now. Yes, sir. Hello. We can hear you. Can you hear me? Yes, we can hear you. Hello. Yes, we can hear you. Ben, Ben to me. Can you hear me? Yes, more. I mean. We can hear you, but it sounds like you can't. Oh, sorry. Oh, okay. I can hear you now. Thank you. Okay. I used to live at 273 Commonwealth Avenue. I currently live at 250 Commonwealth Avenue, but I do a lot of maintenance work at 273 Commonwealth Avenue, which directly abuts. I'm on the roof a lot as are other people to enjoy the sun. And we went up there one day and noticed there was an extension of about 10 foot going up the wall, obstructing the view. No one was ever given any information about this extension going up that high. I also noticed in some of the material they're talking about building decks out, which will obscure the view from the ground level. So the big issue, don't understand why there was no community outreach. Also, I've dealt with the construction firm when they first started. And in general, just spoke with them about what they were doing and any changes that they never mentioned about going up higher. Or bringing decks out. When I specifically spoke to them about a shared wall that actually needed maintenance and what they were going to be doing in the back. Thank you. Thank you. All right. We have three more people. Okay. Well, let's leave it at that because this is just for G-Cod. So if folks are not speaking to G-Cod, you may want to put your hand down. All right. Well, Chair. Samantha. Samantha? Chair, this is Sarah. I was muted. This is Samantha with Councillor or Sharon? Lorraine? Perfect. Working on theatchet, right? Working on theatchet, right on the ‑‑ Okay. Beracan's office, I just wanted to briefly wanted to give support from the Councillor. This is a Councillor's Support on this time. Thanks so much. Thank you. I don't see a raised hand. I'm in a boat. Jesus, do you see the person who wants to speak? Last speaker. I don't see the person. Okay, now I see I can see the person. I don't see a raised hand. I'm in a boat. Jesus, do you see the person who wants to speak? Last speaker. I don't see the person. Is the person okay now? I see I can see Michelle. Michelle, slow down. Yes, that's me. Yes. I'm at 273 Commonwealth Avenue. And I agree with the other of letters who really take issue with this whole thing. Something that bothers me incredibly is that this edifice was being put up before any of us had any information about it. I mean, the infrastructure is there already. It's mind modeling how they have the audacity to do that. Is this back bag? You don't just slap on a mother. Slap on a mother. Thank you. All right, thank you. Madam Chair, I would like to just ask Jeff Hampton just for a clary again because it seems like there's two issues here. One is residents are complaining about an addition and then what's in front of the board. We are going to rule really on G-Cod applicability in regards to a recharge system. So, you know, is this just because everyone that has showed up has talked about the addition and not the recharge system. Can you just provide clarity or context or feedback to the residents in front of that have a look in front of us about this case. So they feel that we have heard them. But we're ruling on a different on a different. Sure. Thank you, Miss Bed of the Residence. Yeah, when you look at the code, it's not map is a restricted roof structure district. It just isn't there's a 65 foot high limit. So you can go out to 65 feet and from, you know, what else, you know, this is here for G-Cod. It's not here for a restricted roof structure because. So basically their addition is by right and I think it's important for them to hear that. Yeah, I mean, the only reason why we hear is G-Cod. Yes. Yeah, okay. Great. Thank you. Thank you. So with that, Chair, Donna, give it to you. Okay. So if there are no other questions from the board, is there a motion? Based on what we're based on over here for I make a motion of the group. Okay. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Stumbridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Lina. Yes. Mr. Barrazo. Yes. Is we well? Yes. Chair votes. Yes. The motion carries. Thank you, everybody. Have you had it? Next, we have case. Be aware. 1774492. With the address of 298 to 292 B.M. Street. If the applicant and with the representative of the present, would they please explain the case in court? Yes. Good morning. My name is Timothy Burke. I'm the architect for the project. I have a business address of 142 Berkeley Street in Boston. I'm also joined with the owner of the property, a system meter. And she raised her family in this unit. She's been living in it for over 40 years. And now the kids are gone. And so what we're looking to do is separate a portion on the ground level that could easily be a separate apartment as a two bedroom, one bath apartment. And this will allow her to make better use of her space on the other levels. And it provides an additional dwelling unit with a minimal amount of work. We are seeking relief for the fact that we are adding a unit to this building and thereby are required to have one off street parking space. But we don't have the ability to provide that on the property. But we feel the project is still a very good one for the city and the neighborhood by creating an additional dwelling unit with, as I mentioned, very minimal amount of work. With that, I'd be happy to answer any questions you may have. Thank you. Are there any questions from the board? You're in that public testimony. Madam Chairman and members, Sigi Johnson with the Office of Neighborhood Services. This applicant has completed the community process. Our office hosted in a butter's meeting on October 21st at which no concerns were raised. The Neighborhood Association of the Back Base and Non-Opposition to this application. That background, our office, to first judgment to the board. Thank you. Thank you. Makes we have some courage. Madam Chair, members of the board, we encourage with Councillor Sharon Durkin's office. As Sigi explained, we've been in contact with a butter's as well as the local association, which was now who was in non-opposition and with at the council's thersin support. Thank you. Thank you, Madam Chair. Any additional comments? Okay, but that may I have a motion? Okay. I'll check it out for a while. There's second. Second again. Mr. Stambridge. Yeah. Mr. Volazia. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Lainham. Yes. Better Brause. Yes. This will be well. Yes. Yes. The motion carries. Thank you very much. Next we have case B.O.A. 1791354. With the address of 227 New Veristry. It's the applicant and other residents and other representatives. Are present. Would they please respond to the board? Yes. Thank you. Mr. Lainham. My name is David Solverman. I'm an architect at STA Design at 308 Congress Street in Boston. And we're representing the Coffley Group, the owner of the building. And we are seeking approval for a change of occupancy at 227 New Veristry. The prior use of this space was a drive cleaner. However, the space had been vacant for quite some time. The proposed new use is a French bakery cap bay. The operator has two other locations, one in Belmont and one is Cambridge. We have met with the neighborhood association back bay twice. The first time to discuss the awning at the exterior of the building. And we also have two exterior tables and four chairs at the garden level entrance. Our second meeting with the Nav was to discuss with the with pre-aligned bakery, the operations of the facility. And after that meeting, Nav held a report back to us that they would not pose the project. There are 12 seats inside of the of the cafe. And that's really why we're here. So thank you for your consideration. Thank you. Questions from boards. During that, Mayor Public testimony. Yes. So, you ought to say with the Office of Neighborhood Services, and that's completed the community process, the office oversight distribution of an informational flyer to all occupied structures and a 300 foot radius, which just solicited no comments to our office, the neighborhood association of the back bay is in non opposition to this application. That background our office deferred judgment to the board. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks. And next we have some courage, please. Thank you, Madam Chair, members of the board. I would encourage from Councillor Scherner to open this. Similar to the used comments, we've been in contact with the betters as well as the local association, which is Nav. Nav is in non opposition. We're excited for this use. And I'm the Councillor's in support of the proposal. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Madam Chair. I know additional comments. Okay. Would that have motion? Motion jokers. Baraza second. Mr. Semberg. Mr. Semberg? You're on mute. Sorry, Madam Chair. Thank you. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Reinhon. Yes. Mr. Berrazel. Yes. Ms. Weow. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. The motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Next, we have. Excuse me. Next, we have case of the away. 176 or 6854. With the address of 1071 Massachusetts Avenue. If the applicants endure their representative or present. Would that prove its point to the point? Hello. My name is Justin Parker. I work for Classic Signs. We are representing Metro Credit Union at 1071 Massachusetts tab. Our proposal is for to replace the electronic message center at this sign. This sign was approved and built originally around 2011 around here. And when I went to apply for a permit to replace the signs. I believe the Parks Commission came back and said that we are in violation within setback distances of the park. I'm asking the board to please appeal this decision so that we can update this EMC. It's going from instead of this old style dot matrix. It's going to a more modern RGB style. We have a lot more freedom to. I'm like what kind of content we can advertise. Of course, that's all dimmable. We can control how long it's for or how long it's on for how bright it is. That sort of thing. And I think specs available for that EMC if anyone wants to ask any questions about. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? Can I hear from Mr. Hampton on this? Yeah, thank you Madam GMM's of board Jeff Hampton City Boston Planning Department. And keeping with the city's policy on these types of appeals on electronic signage. We recommend denial of this proposal. We acknowledge that sign is already existing and I think it did receive design review. And we're not from the BRA back in 2011. However, we just don't think that a full conversion to an electronic sign is appropriate in this area, especially with its location to the park. And being consistent with our policy, we're on the record is going into Nile of this proposal. Thank you. Thank you. May I have public testimony? Madam Chair and members of the board for the record. My name is Jeremy Bembery. I am the Roxbury Community Engage and Specialist for the Office of the Neighborhood Services. I completed the community process which consists of a new budget is meeting facilitated on October 23rd with the new budget. I'll guess an attendance. Next, the proposal met with the new market business improvement and with no opposition, the community process was completed. I thank you for your time in the mayor's office of neighborhood services. We'll have to defer to the board for the judgment. Thank you. Next, Madam Chair, we have Ben Morphe. Good morning, Madam Chair and members of the board. My name is Ben Morphe and I'm with the new market business district. As was just mentioned, Metrocredit Union came to us to discuss the update to their sign. In fact, in 2011, when the original sign went up, our executive director Sue Sullivan was in communication with them about the heat design of that sign. There was no opposition from the neighborhood then or now. As the sign is already pre-existing and we think this is a reasonable update to what is already there. We are in support of this project. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, there are no additional comments. Can I just confirm the sign you have now versus what you are proposing? So which are proposing is converting it to 100% digital. So, the new market is going to be a little bit smaller. It's like a stagnant metrocredit Union and then you have the dot dot dot letter part. The metrocredit Union part is going to stay just like a regular sign cabinet with like a Lexan face on it. We are only replacing what is the EMC. There are no changes to the side. So, the sign itself stays similar or the same size. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Yes. Is there an expiration date for the sign or will anyone go into either perpetuity? We usually don't deal with expiration dates. That sort of thing. It's usually whenever there's some sort of problem like we're replacing the faces because they were cracked and they figured it would be time. I'm not sure if that's the question more for the Plain Department or be. Yeah. Maybe we just have them this year. Yes. Thank you, Mr. Lasia. The same issue where if you look at this only code in section 117 where it deals with conditional uses. The sign is in an area that doesn't allow a conditional use. It's actually forbidden use. Which would require a variance rather than a conditional use permit. And only those areas where it has conditional use permit. And there's a time limit on how long a sign is allowed to stay. It's eight years. However, again, I think they're looking for a variance in this case rather than a conditional use permit. No, they're asking for a conditional use. I understand that that's what's cited. But when you read the code, that's not what is actually true. So, there's only three areas where electronic signs are allowed as a conditional use. And this isn't wonderful. That's right. So, I think it's just the technicality. So, because they're asking for a variance rather well, I take that back. Under 117, one of the conditions for a conditional use permit is that it is limited to an eight-year time period. And that's where Mr. Berlensky is coming in with a time-free. Because it does state that in section 117. Thank you. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Yeah. Go ahead. Sorry. I guess first I want clarification that regardless of whether we say yes or no, the sign will stay out, right? Either it's a sign or the sign that's being voted on. And that we can confirm that. Yes. The existing sign, if the denial to change the EMC, if this gets denied, we're just going to keep the existing EMC. Okay. And then I have a second question. Have you done a study to compare the brightness level between the existing sign and the sign that you're proposing? We haven't done a study, but I do have these specs for the new cabinet that we're going to put in. And it is dimmable. So, the specs will say the max brightness, but we can control that too. Pretty much whatever we like. Okay. And including it being the same level of brightness that the existing sign is. Yep. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Ms. Badazo, did you have another question? No, I think. Okay. Ms. Turner, feedback was very good. So, just no questions. Thank you. Would that Madam Motion? Madam Chair. I really just see there's an upgrade. It's already existing. It's probably more energy efficient as well. I'm going to move forward with a motion of approval, with a provisal that the project illuminations stays similar to the existing sign. Is there a second? That can. Mr. Stembridge. Yeah. The provisional. No, I'm going forward. No, I don't think billboards are good for the city and a better and bigger billboard or a more black billboard. Had the chance to stay there for longer. So, my boat is no. Thank you. Ms. Turner. Yes. Mr. Wynon. Yes. Ms. Berberazza. Yes. This we will. Yes. I'm voting yes because I think this is in a pretty heavy commercial area. I think the park is the most sensitive use, but it seems like the kind of edge of the sign is more facing the park. Yes. Thank you. The motion carries. Thank you. Next we have case B.O.A. 17761619 with the address of 55 57 central street with the applicants and with the representative of the president with their police by the case of the board. I'm going to be in the park. I'm going to be in the park. I'm going to be in the park. I'm going to be in the park. I'm going to be in the park. I'm going to be in the park. I'm going to be in the park. I'm going to be in the park. I'm going to be in the park. I'm going to be in the park. I'm going to be in the park. I'm going to be in the park. I'm going to be in the park. I'm going to be in the park. I'm going to be in the park. I'm going to be in the park. I'm going to be in the park. I'm going to be in the park. I'm going to be in the park. I'm going to be in the park. I'm going to be in the park. I'm going to be in the park. I'm going to be in the park. I'm going to be in the park. I'm going to be in the park. I'm going to be in the park. I'm going to be in the park. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. We have designed it to essentially be in line with the adjacent buildings. It has some, some modern touches to it. It has some modern touches to it. But all the windows are aligned. A bit window bays, doors, the, So we've talked to those folks as well about the, about what we're proposing here. We've had UNM support of the project. People are wanting to get the login filled. And the historic board has also talked about their approval of our kind of more exciting, more historic sought on the front street. And the guys you wrap around the site, gets a little bit more modern. They like the fact that it's not actually trying to replicate exactly what was there in the past. It has, you know, it's contextual, but not, but not, uh, replicating. And so the only changes that we made during the process, during the community process was that the, they wanted to reduce the number of bathrooms in the upper unit from 6.5 to 5.5. The community just wants to make sure that this doesn't become student housing. And they wanted to kind of, you know, lower the number of bathrooms for the bedroom. So we did that and made some adjustments in that way. So that later on, on the cover, I'm just list some of the things we did. We also had some by-parking and moving the master bedroom on the upper unit from the fourth floor down at the third floor. But otherwise, the, yeah, if that's important, we still need to go through some additional review from an exterior design perspective with the historic commission in the neighborhood. I'll pause there and answer any questions we have. And by-per-once, it's also on the call of many questions on the other. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? Hearing none, may I follow the testimony? Madam Chair and members of the board for the record, my name is Jeremy Bemberi and the Roxbury Community Engagement Specialist for the Office of the Boots Services. They have been as completed the community process which consisted of an abutus meeting for solicitation on October 14th. That was a very well received by the community and director of the buddhas alike, receiving overwhelming support during the abutus meeting and abutus very excited to see the change and commend it that design. Next, the proposal was presented to High Park Neighborhood Association on November 11th where they voted in support of the proposal. To date, our office has received two letters of support one being from High Park Neighborhood Association. Thank you for your time in the mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. We'd like to prepare to the board for the judgment. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, may I have no additional comments? Okay, would that have motion? Motion to approve. Madam Second. Second. Again, Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes, Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Lano. Yes. Mr. Bette-Borazza. Yes. As we will. Yes. Chair votes, yes. The motion carries, Gaval. Thank you all very much, everything. Thank you. No arm, you're right. Mr. Stembridge, on me. Oh. Sorry about that, Madam Chair. Okay, next we have case. No, a 1, 7, 2, 3, 1, 9, 7, with the address of 10 to 12, 12 E-code Street. Is the applicant's end-order representative of the board with the board case in the board? Hi, my name is Diana Centeno, and I'm the former at 10 E-code Street. We are looking to renovate our basement to make a playroom for my two children, H2 and 4. There will be no bathroom in the basement. It will not change the footprint of our existing home. The only thing that will be changed to the structure of the home is an addition of a window to compile a Boston codes. Does any, there is no opposition by the neighborhood. And our directive letter is at front of that condo. They have voiced support of the project. Are there questions from the board? Hearing none, may I have public testimony? Madam Chair and members of the board for the record, my name is Jarry B. Embryry. I'm the Rosland Dale Community to engage in specialists for the Office of the Public Services. The applicant has completed the community process which consists of under-broaders waiting to facilitate on November 5th with two directive orders and attendance that express their support. Next, the proposal presented to West Village and the Wood Association which completed the community process. Thank you for your time in the mayor's office of Deputy Services. We'd like to defer to the board for the judgment. Thank you. Thank you, Madam Chair. I think there was one person David. I'm not sure if you were looking to speak for this case. Hello. I am just a contractor and I'm here to support the homeowner. Thank you. Madam Chair, there are no additional comments. Would that be a motion? Motion to approve. Madam the second. Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yeah. Dr. Valencia. Yes, sir. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Is better brazo. Yes. As we well. Yes. Chair, let's just the motion carries the ball. Next we have case B.O.A. 177-6266 with the address of 24 Newberg Street. If the applicant handle other representative of present will they please the point? Hello. My name is Rose and I live at 24 Newberg Street. That's the house I grew up in and I have been living there. The house needs some work for safety issues such as redoing the porch and repairing the panels on the side of the house. I'm getting married in August and I will have to continue staying at my home and the goal is to have the repairs completed by then as this will be the place we will be living. And I am the co-owner of the house with my dad who is also a contractor. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Hearing none, may I follow the testimony? Madam Chair and members of the Board of the Record, my name is Jeremy Bembery. I am the Ros on the Accommodation and Engage and Specialist for the Office of Neighborhood Services. The applicant has completed the committee process which is the set of an abutus meeting facilitated on November 5th but no abutus and attendance, no consensual raise. Following the abutus reading, no further process was required which completed the committee process. Thank you for your time and the Ms. Office's elected deferred to the Board for their judgment. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, may I have an additional comments? Would that may I have a motion? I put forward a motion to approve. Third second. Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Lainon. Yes. Mr. Pettivaza. Yes. Mr. Pettivaza. Yes. Thank you. Ms. We will. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Next, we have a case BOA. 1-7-4-3-9-2-4 with the adios of 24-26 Rose. Please. It's the applicant's handler. They represent the president. Would they believe it's by the case of the BOA? Good morning. Good morning. Good morning, everyone. My name is Sylvia Rivera. I'm representing and I am the builder for Mrs. Entanelli. She's the family owned a house and she's the only survivor. She owns the house now for a long time. And she would like to extend a second floor, making the attic space room and some bedrooms for family members. The niece lives on the second floor. She lives on the first floor. The niece is a nurse and takes care of her. The niece mother lives in the cake and they would like to have places to stay when they come over. So don't have to drive back and forth to the cake two hours a day whenever they come over. Are there questions from the board? Here in Niedman Public testimony. Madam Chairwoman and board members, Siggy Johnson with the Office of Neighborhood Services. This applicant has completed the community process. Our office assistant and the butters meeting on November 3rd at which no concerns were raised. The Brighton-Alston Proof and Association shows you take no position on this application. With that background, our office defers judgment to the board. Thank you. Thank you. We have Joseph find them. Joseph, if you can meet yourself, if you provide the public testimony for this case. All right. Okay. Sorry. Would that be a hand motion? Motion to approve. There is second. Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. His turner. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Mr. Braza. Yes. Ms. Weow. Yes. Chair votes yes. The motion carries. Thank you. Everyone happy new year to everyone. Next, we have case BOA 1781833 with the address of 36 champion street. Is the applicant and the role they represent on the present what they please respond to the board? Hello, can you give me? Yes sir. Yes, good morning. I am a member of the board, Valencia, and the general council project. So 36 champion street is the largest single family and mostly used as a rental. Since it has six plus bedrooms, so the owner said it is very hard to find a single family who did that in bedrooms. So it ends up like they actually eventually are their actual rooms to other unknown individuals making the traffic and safety patterns for the labor was really hard. And it's also hard to manage the property. So we are proposing a 205 square feet well addition directly above the first floor kitchen to make the kitchen for the second unit. And we are trying to make a dome in the attic. So we expect to be a six-year pro-world. You are boarding up here. So right now you have six bedrooms for one family. What will the make up be for the two units? It's a salmon. So three and three? Yeah. Okay. Questions from the board? Hearing men and public testimony? Yes. Siggy Johnson with the Office of Neighborhood Services. This applicant has completed the community process. Our office hosted in a butters meeting on October 21st, at which you're concerned was raised about rodents, the right and allston improvement association is in support of this application. That background, oh, and that's the first judgment to the board. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, there are no additional comments. Thank you. Would that may have motion? Motion for approval. Motion for approval. May I have a second? Second. The comments. Mr. Stembridge. Yeah. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Better Baraza. Yes. As we roll. Yes. Here votes yes. The motion carries. Good luck. Thank you so much. Okay. So with that, it looks like we'll take a five minute break and come back at 11. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Recording in progress. Mr. Stembridge, back with us. All right. I'll keep going through a call and I'll go back. Mr. Valencia. Mr. Turner. Present. Mr. Langham. Present. It's better Baraza. Present. It's we well. Present. Mr. Stembridge. Present Madam Chair. I'll go back. Mr. Valencia. You're on mute. You're here, Mr. Valencia. All right. Well, I'm going to get started with sex and... Okay. There you go. Okay. There you go. Present. Thank you. Well, as you're as Mr. Stembridge. Thank you, Madam Chair. We have great patience. Next we'll go through the hearing schedule. We'll go through the hearing schedule for our 11-8. Good for our 11-8-1. We'll begin by asking if you're any request for withdrawals or deferrals from the 11th of the clock during... Hearing none. Hearing none. Bless you. Thank you. Thank you. Hearing none. We'll begin with two companion cases. The first is the case of the OA. 118. 5-8. 2-2. With the address of 146 to 146-8, Bunker Hill Street. Along with that, we have the case of the OA. 178. 6353. With the address of 148, Bunker Hill Street. Excuse me. Is there any way I can register? I'm trying to raise my hand. Raise your hand in regards to what's there? This is the project at 102 Warren Street. We'd like to withdraw the project from today's hearing. Okay, well let's do that first. Maybe Mr. Stunbunch? Sounds good, Madam Chair. And that would be for case of the OA. 178. 6443. With the address of 112 Warren Street. Would you go ahead and explain, sir? Okay, thank you. And I'm sorry for the technology flaw here. I'm a, David Lee. I'm the architect for the National Council for the incarcerated, formerly incarcerated women in whose headquarters are at that time. They would like to withdraw the proposal today because of funding issues. They need to revise the scope and return with modified program in the future. But in today's funding climate, they need to scale back on some of the aspirations. Thank you. Okay, Madam Motion. I'll make a motion to withdraw. That was second. Second. Mr. Stunbridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Turner. Yes. Mr. Blang. Yes. Mr. Brasa. Yes. As we well. Yes. Air votes yes. The motion carries. Good luck. Thank you very much. I appreciate you doing this. And I hope to come back to you with a revised scheme that everybody will be happy with. Thank you. Good luck. So with that, if there are no other requests for withdrawals and withdrawals, I would like to thank you for the opportunity to withdraw. I would like to thank you for the opportunity to withdraw. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Any other questions from the board? Any other questions from the board? Any other questions from the board? Any other questions from the board? Any other questions from the board? Any other questions from the board? Any other questions from the board? Any other questions from the board? Any other questions from the board? Any other questions from the board? Any other questions from the board? Any other questions from the board? Any other questions from the board? any other questions from the board? Any other questions from the board? Any other questions from the Board? Any other questions from the board? Any other questions from the board? to the board. Thank you. Thank you. Madame Chair, next we have this student marine from Consular Colita. I understand from Consular Colita as about this office. At this time the office would like to go in support of the project. Thank you. Thank you Madame Chair. The additional comments. Thank you. Mr. Marsy, do you want to address any of the feedback from us? With respect to water runoff obviously no waters in the lab. IST in Boston, Water and Solar Regulations take the site by the time of permanent issuance. If that issue exists, certainly exists as a concern that that will be addressed and proper site mitigation will have to be in fact so that there's no runoff or IST relationship with permit. Respectable deck. Once again I'm not aware of that but IST obviously not the issue of building permit or a deck that is crossing the boundaries of operating line absent in Eastland which panel is not in place so again whatever is furnishing by IST would only allow for lawful construction within the lot lines. Thank you. Any other questions from board? Hearing none, ma'am, a motion on 146 to 146 A. Bunker Hill Street. I put forward a motion of approval with a pervise of that on it's submitted to the Planned Department for Design Review. Second. Second. Okay. Mr. Stembridge. Yeah. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Lightham. Yes. Is better browser. Yes. As we will. Yes. Chair votes yes. The motion carries. Thank you. I assume that since Mr. Stembridge already called 148 I was perceived without recall. Yeah. Please. Thank you. Again for the record Madam Chair, my name is George Marancy and attorney with the Business Address Cretifus Violence Health Laws. Again, representing the Nick Porinis matter. Seeking variances for excessive for area ratio. It's a very actual allow. Construction of the third floor addition with the rear deck long with expansion of the libelary area building basement through excavation and installation of co-compliant egress windows in NS neighborhood shopping sub-discord. I again wish to begin by knowing the climate requirements recommendation. For the subject to design review. I also wish the clarifying important point which is also already been planning recommendation that while the reviews are letter sites were ref needed for the site's location within a roof structure. Restricted roof structure district. The project doesn't propose construction of a roof deck or even roof property. Tilties the area with roof deck on the plant is actually a rear deck. Aligning with the third story edition of the rooftop structure. Without any FAA out violation which being proposed as an increase from approximately 1.4 or 5 approximately 2.2 or 0. Again the maximum FAA out here is 2. This additional FAA will be achieved to expansion the basement and the addition of third story. There's the planning recommendation notes residential properties in the immediate area. Commonly a full story taller than this building which is more aligned with the massing for commercial properties in the district. Again it's an NS district. This is an area where it is predominantly residential. The proposed height would also and as the boy knows in the media the preceding hearing compliment post height of the flooding and connected structure at 1.46 bunker hill street. There's a planning recommendation that the national notes is exceptional in common for residential properties in this area especially when supporting multiple belonging to have FAA hours. Grading from 2.0 to 3.0 exceeding the maximum even though this is a new week. Created conventional violation the FAA are with the other result of the so high will contextual with existing residential properties. So in other words the proposed FAA actually brings this into a line with the established residential pattern of the block as to the rear setback violation that's in a existing on conformity. The original structure already extends beyond the rear setback line is the planning analysis and starts of conforming. I said back here would require fully 30% of total parts that are dedicated to a really high compliance which we constitute a hardship for successful residential expansion of the building. So that's a very definition of the dimensional hardship. A lot of configuration makes stric compliance essentially impossible for expanded living space here. This proposal incorporates part of the original structure that exceeds the rear setback line does include a new one so it's maintaining a zero foot setback condition but not worsening it. Finally regarding the context like the preceding part of the on 36th part of the street this site is an NSF district pagotom of residential planning department again notes that homecier economy future roof x being one of those rear side decks precisely the elements that are being proposed under this application and again as a peat of property it sits directly across from the pocket of the element there's a lot going on in this area in terms of adding actively adding in which to thousands of neighborhood as well seated well cited with respect to being in a highly walkable area trains of the ordinance it and again the proposal restrict respect the existing residential fabric of this neighborhood that all causing take any questions the members may have. Thank you are there questions from the board? Hearing none and public testimony? Madam Chair board members he got so at the office of neighborhood services this application was presented at a butter's meeting jointly with 146 so I will restate the testimony a concern was raised by a butter about drainage impacts on Boswell Lane and additional concern was raised about part of the structures deck having been built across the lot like on to a neighbor property and complications that would pose with construction that back on our office to first judgment to the board thank you. And and Madam Chair George Williams with respect to those comments since the the same my response would be the same as with respect to one 26. Thank you questions from the board. They have motion motion to approve with a proviso that plans to submit it to the planning department for design review. Second. That they. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Wazio. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Mr. Berberaza. Yes. Mr. Wewell. Yes. Chair votes yes. The motion carries. Thank you. The next few cases we've our companion case. The first is case B.O.A. 179. 9398 with the address of 34 Mead Street along with that we have case B.O.A. 179. 9401 with the address of 34 R Mead Street. And I believe these cases are for returning guarantee. Thank you. Mr. Stembridge. Madam Chair members of the board. Good morning. My name is George Marancy. I'm the attorney for business address of 350 West B.O.A. 179. So I'm lost in these cases. I was definitely companion cases. I represent the owners of property John Campbell and his mother Claire Smith. Madam Chair, what is happening here is the movement of an invisible site boundary line. This site is currently occupied by three family dwellings owned and occupied by John and Claire. There are two units in the front as can be seen here on the site point. Two units in front portion of this building which is attached by a prior role to the rear portion of the building, which is essentially a standalone single family as it's on separate entrance in the address. It's where John and Claire live. What is being sought here is to subdivide property to create a two family role in the front number 34 Mead Street. And a single family in the rear standalone single family number 30 true R Mead Street. No changes at all are the opposed to the building. It is simply a subdivision of the loss of the existence structure. It's to allow for independent ownership in the future of the two family and the one family was separate. Well, I'm the next. Questions from the board. Eric, that may have public testimony. Yes, see you don't see what the office of neighborhood services. This applicant has completed the community process. Our office hosted on a butter's meeting on November 12, 2025 at which no concerns were raised. That background. Oh, and that's the first judgment to the board. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Monteneges. We have a. Alindo. You can you knew yourself. The personal window in the 10th section. You can you knew yourself. If you're speaking only of the for this case. I'm sorry. I am waiting on another. Another case. Okay. I'm sorry. I didn't see the number of the case pulled up. I'm Gary. Is this a 688 Columbia road? We are on 34 Mead Street. Are you here to make a comment? I'm Gary Mendoza, the project architect operating out of doorchester. I'm here to 34 Mead Street. No. No. No. Okay. Thank you. So, was that may I have a motion? I'm Gary Mendoza, the project director. Second. Thank you. Mr. Stambridge. Yeah. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Mr. Bethe-Boraza. Yes. Ms. Wewell. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. The motion carries. Thank you, Madam Chair. Members. Thank you. Next. We have case merely 1770713 with the address of 921R to 923R. So, we have a number of cases. Is it 143? If the applicant and the one there represent a present with that place of plans of the oil. Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Nick Landry from DRT where the project architects. I believe that the owners are on the call, um, but I'm going to run through the plans here. the area of the area of the area of the area. The street on the right is a long top. This is a carriage house at the rear of the property that was converted into two units. The front building you can see there is a two-family. And at the rear there's two units side-by-side. Go to the next street please. We were excited for two units on the left-hand side there at the page. A rooftop structure violation would be enclosing that existing roof deck to create some more living space. And the usable open space violation would be room because we're removing the roof deck space. What it is we have a town house here. We've looked to the next page. You can see as I mentioned they're kind of divided right down the middle. It's toward the bottom of the page there. There's a single family house that's in the upper street to the top of the page. There's parking in between that structure and that carriage house in the rear that was converted to two units. Go to the next page please. So the purpose of this is to convert an existing head house and a roof deck into a primary suite for the owners. They have a growing family and they're looking to stay in place. The front building on the property and the neighboring townhouse that we share with the carer house are all family members. So in order for them to stay here they're just looking to increase the useable square footage by enclosing that roof deck. We've flipped the next page. You can see on the left hand side that shows you that carriage house with those two separate entries, two separate units in the back. We're going to be in closing that roof deck on the left hand side. The unit on the right hand side stays the same. No change the roof deck. Below the next page please. Here you can see the head house. You can see that existing elevation on the left hand side where there's a head house. We're going to be pushing that left hand wall out a little bit and then extending the head, the what was the head house all the way to the front of the roof deck to enclose all that space to create more room for a master master by secondary speed. The next page please. Again, you can see on the left hand side that's the existing head house with the roof deck to the right. We're just going to be enclosing that roof deck pushing that wall all way to the front of the mansard. No change in height. We're just adding about 330 square feet with this renovation. Go to the next page please. And from the backside. See that head house there. On the left hand side there's some existing mechanical units. Those of those boxes on the top. Those will stay nothing changes. We're just going to be providing roof access for them for maintenance. That's what that little hatch is there. We're pushing out that wall and adding some more windows and bring some light in on the top floor. The next page please. I'm just kind of just of you. You can see the enclosed roof deck that's now part of that unit in the open area roof deck that's part of the other unit. We're not touching that unit as the project. That's the end of the presentation. If there's any questions, I'll tap it a circle. Thank you. As a questioner from the board. Hearing none, ma'am. Put the testimony. Yes. So you're also at the office of neighborhood services. This applicant has completed the community process. Our office hosted in a butters meeting on October 20th at which no concerns were raised. City Point neighborhood association chose to take no position on this application. That background. Oh, and that's the first judgment to the board. Thank you. Good. I'm too late. So we have Ashley. Hi, my name is Ashley from Councilor Flynn's office. Councilor Flynn would like to go on record and support based on a good community and the community. I'm going to go on record and support. I'm going to go on record and support based on a good community process and work with neighbors and the butters. You respectfully request that the proponent and team to continue to work closely with the community on any quality of life issues during the construction phase. Thank you. Madam Chair, do I know the issue of comment? With that man, motion. Madam Chair, I would like to prefer a motion. A motion of approval with a provisal that the project undergoes BPD design review. Paying a special attention to the addition massing and to work with the men's room and the top story, which is in conflict with one another in regards to complimenting the character of the neighborhood. Thank you. Is that a second? Second. Mr. Beppich? Yeah. Mr. Ronsier. Yes. Mr. Turner? Yes. Mr. Rangham. Yes. Mr. Berraza? Yes. Yes, we will. Yes. Chair votes. The motion carries. Thank you very much. Mr. Bauer, may I ask the motion to begin? Yes. Mr. Rangham, may I ask Mr. Karee? Yes. Mr. Bauer, may I ask your comment? Yes. Thank you very much. Thank you. Next we have case B.O.A. 178, 6734 with the address of six Brooks-I Avenue. It's the applicant's and the representative present, which explains the boil. Yes, thank you, Mr. Stembridge from Adam Chair. I'm Mrs. the Board, Attorney Ryan Spitz, with Adam's Marancy Business Adress of 168 H Street, First Law, South Boston. I'm here on behalf of my client, Stormright, as LLC. Also joining me today is the project architect, our ex-apperson. This proposal seeks to erect a new single family, with the product being on a vacant lot consistent of approximately 1984 square feet, which creates the need for relief, as of the insufficient lot area, code requires 4,000 square feet within this 3F, 4,000 sub-district. Further, the preexisting commissions of the law also create the need for relief as to lot width and frontage. This three-story structure will consist of first floor living room kitchen in a bathroom. Second floor will consist of two bedrooms and two bathrooms. Third floor will consist of two bedrooms, one bath, and office space, and an additional family room. Also, the roof plan will contain approximately a 250-foot square foot roof deck access by hatch. We have violations for FAR violation as the proposal calls for 1.28. As compared to a compliant 0.7, which is actually lower than most of the properties FAR in this neighborhood. Side yard proposal calls for three feet on the left side of the property, and code requires send feet. With the accumulative side yard 17 feet, and the proposal has approximately 11.75 feet, but does maintain adequate light in the air between the neighboring properties. Rare yard shall allow exception applies here, which lowers the setback to 15 feet, and the proposal calls for 10 feet to the structure. But again, consistent with other rare yards in this neighborhood, we have open space violation as we require to provide 800 square feet in total, and the proposal calls for approximately 365 square feet. Lastly, we were cited for conformity of existing building alignment. We believe we were cited in error as the proposed structure lines up with the existing building alignment on this block, but the proposed setback of seven feet. So at this point in time, I'm trying to turn it over to you for any questions or comments from the board. Thank you. Any questions from the board? I do have a question. One of the letters submitted asked requested that. You install a sprinkler system? Will that be happening? Yes, it's not required. We do consider many accommodations going through the community process, which resulted in a lot of changes to the actual plans that you presented here, but that was not one thing that the owners were willing to accommodate. Thank you. Thank you. Question. Yes, this is located about two blocks from the orange line. Do you think the proposed will consider reducing the parking lot from the parking space from 2 to 1 to increase open space? So we did that already. So in the original proposal in the Stavilancia, it was side by side parking. And there was an indent of the building itself to accommodate maneuverability. What we did is we changed the parking scheme to be tandem spaces. And we filled in to provide more living space and as well as more outdoor space for the proposal. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Other questions from the board? May I have public testimony? Madam Chair and members of the board for the record, my name is Jeremy Bemberery, and the Jamaica Plane Community Engagement Specialist for the Office of Neighborhood Services. The applicant has completed the community process, which consisted of an abouters meeting facilitated on November 3rd with no more brothers and attendants. Next, the book on a presented to Jamaica Plane Neighborhood Council, the zoning community, and the Egressons Square Neighborhood Association, who voted to support this project. As does the neighborhood ask us with the Jamaica Plane Neighborhood Council's zoning committee, with the request of provisional, that the side by side parking get changed to tandem parking to allow for more green space. To date, our office has received one letter of opposition with concerns for increased emissions, parking, and the height of the building, as well as one support letter from Egressons Square Neighborhood Association, who supports the proposal, including their requested changes. The support letter was sent to the board for a review, but I will read the changes in the record. The request is included in large the first floor in order to provide an adequate family dining area on the first floor, which adjusts the driveway to allow for tandem parking to provide to space for two cars. Second, to extend the back yard space with the width of the lot by shortening the driveway to providing more usable backyard for residents. I can the letter was sent to the board with the request. Thank you for your time and the mayor's office of Neighborhood Services. We would like to defer to the board for the judgment. Thank you. Madam Chair, there are no additional comments. Will that may have a motion? Motion to talk to the board. Second. Second. Second. Mr. Stumbridge. Yes. Mr. Volazio. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Lano. Yes. Mr. Barrazo. Yes. As we well. Yes. Chair Wolzschess. the motion carries. The point. Thank you. The next case has been deferred. So that takes us to case below 1,7,9,5,3,2 with the address of 77 Boris Street. The applicant's and what the represent of the applicant what they are explaining to the board. Yeah, that's the system. Thank you. Good morning, Madam Chair. I'm Mr. Bore, Attorney Derek Small. Our business suggests a 51-dops in row. And joining me today is the architect for the project, Gavin Driscoll, and the owner of the property, Mr. DeWayne Beallet. Madam Chair, we're here today seeking relief to erect a building for four resident reunions with three parking spaces on a vacant lot at 77 Bowdoin Street, which is at the corner of Bowdoin and Oakley Street. Here, the zoning service is a 2L5,000, and our lot sizes are approximately 4100 square feet. With regards to the violation, Madam Chair, the FAR, the required FAR, and the zoning service is 3.5. We are proposing 1.5. We'll be set for parking as the required spaces one per unit. For parking spaces, and we've got provided three parking spaces. The side yard setback required for this 10. On the shortest side, we've got approximately four. And the real violation is 30 feet, and we are proposing 20 feet. I'll turn it over to Gavin, and he can go through the plans and go through the units in the bedroom count and all of that stuff, Gavin. Thank you so much. Good afternoon. Gavin Driscoll, why does our connection and design? I'm proposing a four-family home on a 4,000 square foot vacant lot. We're proposing three bedroom two-bath units with a traditional three-decker look. And then in the basement, we're providing a one-bedroom, one-bath unit on the way that the gray lays out in the site, the basement or a garden-level apartment, and actually a walk out, which you can see on the section on the top left on that pitch there. Just because of the grade, you can walk out at the basement level. And if you can go to the next slide, I can show you the exterior elevations. On the top right, you can see the elevation facing Bowdoin Street with a traditional three-decker look. And then you can see from the side elevation, because of the grade, it's actually a walk out. And the garden level or basement level, where the parking will be covered on the backside. And I can take any questions if there's any questions. Yes, Madam Chair, just to add, I know the planning department's recommendation was for approval and support, but they did have one comment on it with regard to accessibility and that Bowdoin Unique, which comes out onto the level at grade, is accessible, handicap accessible. So I just want to make sure that folks will wear that as well. Thank you. Questions from the board? Hearing none, may I have a motion? Madam Chair and members of the board for the, sorry. Sorry. Public comment, sorry. Hi. Thank you. I jumped out. Madam Chair, members of the board for the record, yes, ma'am. For the record, right now is Jerry Rebeber, out of the dojastic community engagement specialist with the Office of Neighborhood Services. Depp, I can ask you complete the community process, which is set up on the Board's meeting to facilitate the non-July 14th, with one of the butter and attendance, no concerns are raised. Next, the opponent met with the greater Bowdoin Geneva neighborhood association, which completed the community process. Thank you for your time, and the most office of neighborhood services elected to participate in the Board for the judge. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Next, we have Brian. Hi, good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is Timothy Diedmann. I'm here on behalf of City Councilor Brian WRL. We would like to call on record and support of this project, which will bring a family-style home ownership unit into the area. So thank you very much. Thank you. Madam Chair, there are no additional comments. Okay, was that me? I have a motion. Madam Chair, I'd like to put forward a motion of approval with a proviso that the project undergoes BPD design review, paying special attention to accessibility on the site plan in the internal unit to accommodate group 1 units. The second. Second. Mr. Stamperch. I mean, yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Irvinegle. Yes. Awesome. Yes. Ms. WRL. Yes. Chair, it's yes. The motion carries. Thank you, Madam Chair. It was a good day. Thank you so much. With the time being that it is, we'll jump ahead to the discussion schedule for 11.30 am, and ask if there are any requests or withdrawals with their photos. Thank you. Hearing none, then we will return to end of the 11 o'clock. Case B08, 180, 6139, with the address of 2.2 to 2.94, high-part cabinet. This is an article in case, and we'll ask if there is the applicant or the representative. Yes. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the Board. My name is Joe Hannah Schneider with the Law from the Humberway Inverts at 75 State Street in Boston. I'm here on behalf of our expert in the developer. With me on the Zoom is Adam Tudano from Arx and Anna Walk, the project architect from JGE. We're really excited to share with the Board a proposal to bring 48 much needed units of rental housing, a full 90% of which will be affordable to an underutilized site on high-part app in Jamaica Point. The site is currently occupied by a vacant one-story retail building with Surface Parking. We are proposing to develop an approximately 49,800 square foot building with a mix of studios run to three-bedroom units. In all, there will be 43 affordable units. Ten of the units will be income restricted at 30% of AMI. Ten of the units will be income restricted at 50% of AMI. Sixteen of the units will be income restricted at 60% of AMI. And seven of the units will be income restricted at 80% of AMI. There will also be five units in the development that are market rate units, which is intended to allow for upward mobility without displacement. That is to the extent that tenants in the building find themselves moving out of AMI eligibility. They can move into the market rate units rather than be displaced from the building. The site is exceptionally well served by transit and really is a perfect location for residential density of this nature. It's in close proximity to numerous MBTA bus lines. And it is a short walk to the forest, tells multinational transportation hub, as well as numerous open space resources, including the arboretum, the forest tells cemetery, and Fankham Park. The project does leverage this trans-erbitch environment by taking a progressive approach to parking, while encouraging environmentally friendly travel by training bus and bicycle. Arx owns a number of similarly situated projects with comparable mix of units and affordability and based on its experience operating these other projects. We've arrived at a parking ratio of 0.35, which is 17 on-site spaces. I would note though that we do not require really for parking due to changes in the code adopted in 2021, which will eliminate minimum parking requirements for projects with more than 60 percent affordability. We're also providing secure parking by bicycle parking at a ratio of one space per unit. At its highest point, the building is six stories, without volume stepped back, while toward the integrator of the site, preliminary shadow studies indicate that due to the orientation of the building in the sun, there will be minimal shadow impacts on a budding properties. The project will include an approximately 635 square-foot ground floor community room, which will be available to neighbors by reservation at no charge. The project will be all electric and highly sustainable, including design to meet passive house and lead certifiable standards. We have had a very high level of community engagement, including personal outreach to direct abouters, two neighborhood meetings and meetings with community groups. The project evolved significantly throughout the community process, leading to a reduction in the originally proposed height, the addition of step facts from both the Woodborne neighborhood to the rear and Hyde Park Avenue in the front, a shrinking of the footprint, increased step facts, and a wider impact on Hyde Park Avenue. As a result of these changes, there is now a 45-foot buffer between the building and the nearest residential building to the rear. We also change the building materials and the facade in order to blend in with surrounding foliage to contextualize the building massing and to align the building with the surrounding building rhythm. I also want to note that there will be new fencing installed along the perimeter of the project site to increase privacy for neighbors, and in response to residents' comments regarding the potential traffic impacts, notwithstanding the very low number of vehicular parking spaces. During the PIC process, the applicant will work with the city agencies, including BTD, to ensure that there is space available for short-term pickups, and drop-offs, and deliveries. This project was unanimously approved by the BPDA Board in December. We also have the support of the JPMC Zoning Committee and the Forest Hills Neighborhood Association. We've submitted to the record a letter of support by 41 members of the Abiding Report Neighborhood, as well as a letter of support from State Ruffs in Anthem, in Taino, with respect to the relief that we are seeking, the inflonator of the project, and the need to meet requirements for state affordable housing subsidies really creates the unique conditions that drive the need for the repusted variances. The proposed density of the project reflected in its height FAR and setbacks truly is the minimum necessary to make the project financially feasible to secure that state affordable housing fund and the requested really formal-type family uses necessary to allow the development of these much-needed affordable housing units, which does align with the city's housing goals. The requested really with respect to voting, of course, the opportunity to dedicate more space within the project to affordable housing. I'm happy to turn this over to JGE to walk through the plans for to answer any questions that the committee may have. Thank you so much for your time this morning. Thank you. Are there questions for the Board? Hearing none, let's take public testimony. Madam Chair and members of the board for the record. My name is Jeremy Bemberi. I am the Jamaica Plain Community Engageant Specialist for the Office of Neighborhood Services. This is an AutoGradio project that had a public meeting on October 22, 2025. The developer presented to FAR ourselves a neighborhood association on January 7 of 2025 and to the Jamaica Plain Neighborhood Council's zoning committee on January 7 of 2026. The Jamaica Plain Neighborhood Council voted in support of the project. The developer has also met, excuse me, hosted a meeting on January 8, 2026 for a purpose to discuss the project and any concerns with the developer directly. Our office will see the petition with 40 signatures in support of the project and at the sound of the mayor's office of neighborhood services we'll like to go on record in support of this proposal. Thank you for your time. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, next we have Jordan from Consular Weathers. Thank you. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. Jordan here from Councilor Webber's office, director of policy communications, district six. Given the developer's commitment to go beyond the required 20% of affordability, the need of affordable housing and district and Jamaica Plain Neighborhood Council's support. Councilor Webber, we're going to go on record in support of granting the various variances needed to complete this project in order to bring more affordable units into the neighborhood. Thank you so much for your consideration. Thank you. Thanks, next we have Nathan. Hi, my name is Nathan and I attended the December 2nd neighborhood meeting with Adam Gerrano. I found ARX Urban to be extremely responsive to all the neighbors' concerns. I support this project 100%. Right now it's an affordable auto arts shop and we have the opportunity. I think it's at 48 units. Majority of those affordable. It's right next to transit. This seems like a project that the city needs. We have had projects in the neighborhood fail in the past due to funding. And if this works funding wise, I'm hugely in support of it for our neighborhood. Thank you. Thank you. Adam Gerrano, additional comments. Thank you. Questions from the board. Hearing none, may I have a motion? Yes, I'm sure this is a great project and I'm very happy to see the affordability and the design. So I make a motion of affordable. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Blanccia. Yes. Mr. Tronon. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Mr. Berraza. Yes. As we well. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. The motion carries. Good luck. Next, we have case B.O.A. 17625-91 with the address of 19-21 Fresno Street. If the applicant is going to be on board, they represent our president. Will they please explain cases of work? Yes. Thank you, Mr. Stembridge. Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board. Thank you for the granting us the time to speak in regard of this project at 19 Fresno Street. My name is Gesson Burns. I'm an attorney at Pogenean, Northern Business Address, 10 Forbes Road, Brain Tree Mass. I'm here on behalf of the property owner and proponent for this project. Jacob Lipton, also with me today is the project architect Tony D'Natto. The proposal at hand here today is to demolish a existing single family dwelling on this lot. The dwelling is in extreme disrepair and the lot has become a bit of an eye-surf or the neighborhood. In its place, the plan is to construct a new two-story, two-family duplex dwelling. Each of the units in this new build will have three bedrooms and approximately 1,600 square feet of living space. Each unit will have a dedicated single-carge interior to the building on the ground floor level along with an additional area for parking in the driveway. Each unit will also have a private deck space on the first floor. The proponents use this proposal as a great opportunity to add home ownership opportunities to a lot that can handle two-family density while in turn cleaning up an unsightly lot, an action that would be a benefit to the neighborhood as a whole. We're going to go violations. ISDE has cited us for insufficient lot area. There are required lot space for its two-family in the sub-district is 8,000 square feet, just under 7,000. We also have a violation for open space where we're just under the required amount. And lastly, we have violations for rear yard and side yard setbacks. For the side yard setbacks outside of the private deck on the left side of the house, all other areas are 10 over 10 feet, except from the lot one. In the rear, we are at 25.5 feet away from the lot line. With that, I can turn it over to Tony to know who I believe is on or he may be in the attending section to go over the plans and I can answer any questions from the board if they happen. Yes, hi. I'm Anthony No D'Auto. I'm the Architects for the project with ADR Protect based at the Kent Massachusetts. Just a brief description of the building is I'm sure you actually got a pretty good one is a two-family duplex style front to back. It's done in a traditional style with the same size scale and setbacks of the adjacent homes. Both units actually address the street. They are separated by one car or garages. There are two and a half stories with unfinished basements and walk up addicts. They total 1660 square feet of living space each with three bedrooms, two and a half bathrooms each. Again, there's a one car garage, but there's also a sign parking spaces on the exterior and additional parking spaces for guests. There's a generous share drive that can accommodate these additional guest parking. There is rear yard privacy and as you mentioned, the zoning relief that we're seeking here. Okay, are there questions from the board hearing none? May I have public testimony? Madam Chair and members of the board for the record. My name is Jeremy Pembery and the Rosses and Dale Community Engagement Specialist for the Office of Neighborhood Services. The applicant has completed the community process which insisted on the board is meeting for solicitation on September 18th. That was very lightly attended with three of the board's attendance. One voice support for the proposal of setting anything is better than what is here now. While others voice concerns for the size of the lot, feeling it is too large or with more concerns for construction debris, road abitigation, the construction timeline, tree removal, and the distance of the deck from the adjacent property required whether it could be moved. The proponent presented to West Village Neighborhood Association with no concerns was approved by our office to move forward in the process. To date, our office has received eight letters for support for this proposal. Send to the board for review, expressing that this is a good addition to the neighborhood. Thank you for your time and the mayor's office of neighborhood services were elected deferred to the board for their judgment. Thank you. Madam Chair, there are no additional comments. Okay. Without any other questions from the board, may I have a motion? I make a motion of approval. For all the second. Thank you, Mr. Stemble-Hydr. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Turner. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Ms. Benavraza. Yes. Ms. Wewa. Yes. Chair votes yes. The motion carries. Good thought. Thank you very much. Thank you. Moving on to the rediscussions scheduled for 11.30 a.m. We'll ask again if there are any requests for withdrawals of the flow. There are none who go to case B.O.A. 1-7-0-3-9-6-4 with the addresses 33 Princeton Street. If the applicant ends with their representative or present, will they please explain to the board? Yes. Mr. Stemble-Hydr. There is one person who has risen the hand and is joined now as a panelist. Is there an IPA 2? Yes. Good morning. Yes. Please your name. Yes. Joseph Luna, Principal Luna Design Group on behalf of the owner of Richard Viyachi. Viyachi. We are at 100 Connerbury Hill Drive 406 in Danvers, Massachusetts. We are the project architects. I want to thank the board again for the continuance to this hearing because of a personal matter that we were originally scheduled for last month. That being said, we bring what's going on on this whole thing. We were engaged to resolve violation notices filed on the property in January 2023 for Boston ISD. Those violations consisted of the use of a basement as a fourth family in what was originally approved in 1987 as a three family. And then the use of a residential unit as a studio apartment over existing carriage house. Project now is in housing court and we are working with Kevin O'Connor from Boston ISD, Senior Assistant Corporate Council. Because there were two separate violations originally, we have filed two separate permits for rejection, for one for the carriage house, with our initial rejection coming in 8 to 2024. And then the other four, the four family, which are a rejection came on 3, 27, 2025. At the request of Kevin, he requested that these be companion cases are presented to the zoning board of appeals. However, when you look at the description of what is on today's discussion, it only relates to the discussion regarding the four family, even though they were supposed to be combined as companion cases. At the request of a board, I'd like to be able to present both, and if that is not possible, that we would like to at least move to have discussions on the four family, and then try to expedite the discussions on the carriage house at another hearing. Madam Chair, I see a bit of the position that he can move forward on this case, and then at next month's hearing, he can move forward on the following case. Okay. Okay. So please proceed with this case on me. Just one little note on that we have completed the community process and the abouters hearing for both separate cases. So that being said, then we'll just go through zoning board of appeals. So we will discuss now the case before you today, which is the use of the basement unit as the fourth unit of the primary structure. This was originally approved in June of 1987 by Boston's zoning board of appeals to go from a single family to a three family, with the basement unit being partly duplex of the first four unit. My client, Mr. Varaji, stated that he later appealed this and was granted approval from a three family to a fourth family in the conversion of the basement unit into a separate unit. ISD has no record of this. And that is how the violations were were were filed against him. Mr. Varaji, case taxes as a four unit building on this has four separate units as four separate utilities for each one of the units on this. This unit has been occupied in excess of 15 plus years and needs to requirements for environmental in terms of ceiling height and egress, that egress and means of egress building is not sprinkler. There is no physical construction going on in this unit and we are just attempting to get this recognized as a legal unit as a worth unit within the structure. I'm happy to answer any questions the board may have on this. Thank you. Questions from the board? I have a question. So the applicant is stating that it was previously approved. Do you have me paper work? Yes, we do. I have a copy of this only board of appeals position. June 1987 although I thought that was filed when we submitted the application. I have no record. I have no record of any appeal for the decision from eight three family to a fourth family. Only the original CBA approval back in 1987 for the sync up to a three. And you submitted that to us? Yes, it was part of the initial paperwork. Thank you. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Mayor Public testimony? Oh, Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is Emma Jones representing Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. Regarding 33 Princeton, string of office differs from the board's judgment. A community process was conducted including two of others meetings held on 10, 23, 24 and 6, 23, 25. That was attended by several e-sponsored community members. The feedback from this meeting was significant opposition regarding this proposal, especially from one of their direct-to-butters to the property whose family has been significantly impacted by the ongoing issues of the property, including the building of unparamedic apartments and complaints of renters moving in and out has these properties break, which the a butter and the family members have made several 311 complaints about. There are also three community members in the meeting expressing support for the applicant and his proposal. Additionally, we received one petition and opposition signed by 51 community members expressing opposition to the proposal submitted to the board. And the Eagle Health Civic Association has chosen not to vote or review this proposal. At this time, the mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services refers to the board's judgment on this matter. Thank you, everyone, for your time and considerations. Thank you. Next, we have a steward, a consular colitis. Hi, this is a staff from Councillor Colitis about this office. We are of the opinion that this property was developed to its current state without permission from the city. The owners have been asked to produce documents that show approvals for this former single family home to become a three to four family. That hasn't been produced to the councilor's office. Eagle Health did not recognize them as having appeared in October and a neighbor at a neighbor, a direct butter has a petition with 55 signatures that oppose the group. So Eagle Health has asked them to return for a January presentation in a February vote. So at this time, the councilor's office would recommend a deferral until the community processes fully complete. Thank you. Thank you. We have somebody from the attendee section with the number that ends in 354 if you can unmute yourself. If you can't, you can't. If you can't, you can't. If you can't, you can't. If you can't, you can't. If you can't, you can't. If you can't, you can't. If you can't, you can't. If you can't, you can't. If you can't, you can't. If you can't, you can't. If you can't, you can't. If you can't, you can't. If you can't, you can't. If you can't, you can't. If you can't, you can't. If you can't, you can't. If you can't, you can't. If you can't, you can't. If you can't, you can't. If you can't, you can't. Okay. Are there any other questions from the board? So just for clarification, the proposal is actually for the proposed accessory drawing unit. Is that correct? No, that was incorrect. Is the accessory drawing unit already built? What we are here today is the basement unit that has been occupied again in excess of 15 years or 20 years at this point. That was originally in the original approval in 1987. The basement was part of the first floor unit. The first floor unit. Mr. Barachi appealed that and then converted that basement space into a separate apartment. Has nothing to do with an accessory drawing unit is just a regular apartment. And again, that has been occupied in excess of 20 plus years. But there is no record of the appeal on this and that brought about the violation known as by the city. And the project is in housing court now. So it's not regarding an ADU, it's regarding just being used as a fourth unit in this structure. Right. So maybe my colleagues need to help me. I do see that you're seeking legal use of the property from three to four unit. That makes that's very clear in the drawings that I'm seeing. What's not clear to me is the accessory drawing unit, the garage conversion to an ADU. Okay. It is the garage conversion. I have no record of any of this getting involved and I could not find anything that brought some ISD on this. At some point, the owner built over the existing garage, the studio apartment. That studio apartment has been occupied, as I said, over 10 years by a single tenant. That unit has an issue with e-resources, there's only one stair, which is shown on the proposal for the new unit. That is the project that is not specifically mentioned on our discussion today that I assume we will be talking about next. That's what our attorney said is separated. Maybe Mr. Hampton needs to win because they're like, oh, I suppose they're talking about both. It's mad. The big ball is stirring. Madam Chair, before we go there, I'm looking at the file dated June 23rd, 1987, since Boston, Boyle, who killed, which has provided, I won't read it all, but the first proviso says that this was granted for three units only. No separate basement apartment duplex of the first four units only submit for Boyle of Appeal, new plan for three units. Okay. I believe Mr. Brocci, the building owner is raising his hand too, and you can fill in more specifics of that. I think what I just need clarity on is, are we voting for the legality of turning three units to a four unit, or are we voting for, and, or are we also voting for the accessory unit, but that, but this has already been built, so I think I just need some clarity. So, we are voting today for the three to the four. Okay. And then there'll be a subsequent hearing to discuss the room. Okay, perfect. Thank you. Okay. Any other questions from the board? Hello, Madam Chair. The director butters did raise their hand. They have provided significant impact on the proposal, and you would. Okay. Is this the person named Neil that I see? Because there's a phone number that still has a hand raised, but didn't, wait. I believe that that's the applicant. Oh, that, yeah. I'm also, oh, okay. Okay. So, I've been raising my hand too. Who's smoothing right now? Okay. That's my brother, Guy. I'd like to get a quick synopsis of the. State your name and address for the record. I'm sorry. Sure. My name is Mr. Locky, and we are the director butters of 33 Princeton Street, and we reside 31 Princeton Street. This has been the filming home for over 78 years, but dad's parents bought the property from a friend after living in 31 Princeton Street house since 1923. And I'm not sure if you're lucky, and I'm not. I lived on second floor for 89 years. Finding clothes in your file for review was time limitations on this platform. One, public statement of facts were a drug dated 1216, 2025. Public statement of facts were a drug dated 109, 2026. Public statement of facts were a drug dated 111, 2026 at bottom of page. This photo showing us this is affecting our quality of life in the quiet and peaceful enjoyment of our family home. We're asked for 33 Princeton Street refuse to be heard and acknowledged by eagony health civil organization. When disclosed, the variance violations to legal units created without permits bypassing zoning oversight. Basement and garage. Converted to dwelling without permits. Copy of variance granted to 33 Princeton Street. The variance is required to be used as part of first floor only, no separate apartment. If violated, it goes back to a one family. Extensive neighborhood opposition, led is discussed, zone for three family only, four families not allowed in this zone. Variances required for parking. Walkway converted to driveway is only six feet eight inches wide. Why? That is only a few inches from vehicles tie its contacting foundation of our property. Plans similar by Mr. Luna to city shows a plot plan on page two from 1984. But has no with included for driveway, far review by city plans examiner. I sent an email off to the plans reviewer for clarification. The actual parking on plan submitted is one space. Properly insane spaces. Zoning code required a driveway 10 feet wide and statewide mandates four feet away from an abut his property. State certified structural engineers report for our properties and closed referrals of damaged. The photo of car or a family home extensively damaged from a motor vehicle after gate posts were removed so a vehicle could fit. ZBA bypassed twice for review as a vans which we needed was needed for the two illegal units. See we're dark. Was supposed to use new zoning laws as significant as significant use in intensity were created. We have serious. And ask you to wrap up service. Okay. So we're going to follow the vehicle side swept in a property going funny feet feet, the funny feet downhill bouncing ties off the side of our home foundation. Basically side swept all the way down causing our house to shake causing large cracks and last the class of walls along with the brick foundation house while being pushed in below grade. So this time. Just to wrap it up as this matter is important to us we're requesting that the city and ZBA look at all the zoning issues especially the use of vehicles trying to fit into a 6.8 inch wide space between properties creating damage and the safety issue for our family home. Thank you for your time in this matter. Thank you. Is 3354 also commenting on this case and support opposition. Yes. Is that you sir Richard. Yes, am I connected that can I can tell. Okay, can you identify yourself. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Okay. So you're the applicant. I'm the office of my finding these issues that have come up. Excuse me. Can you help us clarify any of these concerns that have been released by your butter. I know I've been I moved into the neighborhood in 1983. I was in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the late 90s early 2000 and to his aunt's house and 2000. I was in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in 1985. I was in the neighborhood in 1985. I was in the neighborhood in 1985. I was in the neighborhood in 1985. I was in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in the neighborhood in its neighborhood in its neighborhood in its neighborhood in its neighborhood in its neighborhood in its neighborhood in theirutions that nearly their apartments have been named before how to make sure they have their YouTube videos first of year, next year this month only monthly monthly monthly monthly monthly monthly monthly monthly monthly monthly monthly monthly monthly monthly monthly monthly monthly monthly monthly weekend monthly monthly monthly monthly monthly worth monthly monthly monthly monthly monthly monthly monthly monthly monthly monthly monthly monthly monthly monthly monthly monthly monthly monthly monthly monthly monthly, monthly monthly monthly monthly monthly monthly monthly monthly monthlycomm type, monthly monthly monthly monthly monthly monthly monthly monthly monthly monthly monthly monthly monthly monthly monthly bandwidth and money, monthly monthly monthly monthly monthly monthly monthly monthly monthly monthly monthly monthly monthly monthly monthly monthly monthly monthly monthly monthly monthly monthly monthly monthly monthly monthly monthly monthly monthly monthly monthly monthly monthly multiple resay days per week what is 42 gold and summer temperature daily and a month including when Alright get your downtownnos No. Mr. Lino. Yes. There's better browser. Yes. Miss we will. Yes. Chair votes yes. The motion carries. Thank you. Madam Chair, we'll see you next month to discuss the care at house. And just a reminder, this doesn't grant building code relief. It still has to go through that review. This just granted zoning. Right. We understand as I stay. We've not been meeting requirements for an existing structure. And I and I recommend that you hold some community meetings to discuss the idea. Okay. Thank you. Next we have two companion cases. First is case BOA 1765915. With the address of 3434 3436 Washington Street. Along with that, we have case BOA 1767062. With the address of 3440 3446 Washington Street. These are both article 80 cases. It's the applicant and or their representative of present. I'm sorry. Can I ask a question? Are we supposed to go to the 12th of October? Contrification? Yes. All these. Yeah. Let's start. Let's back to that. Thank you. This manager. We have interpretations. Case and read discussions scheduled for 12 p.m. And that is case BOA 168970. And 944 with the address of 62 to 66 Congress Street. If the applicant is in the representative of present, will they put an explain to the oil? Yes. Use the applicant for 66 Condor Street present. Please raise your hand if you are. Yes. I'm chair. I don't see. I don't see anybody. Okay. If that's the case, I'm going to have us take a break before we go back to rest of the cases. For how long? So let's take a 15 minute break. Okay. Thank you. Thank you.