 you you you you you you you the city of Boston zoning board of a pure hearing for December 9, 2025 is now in session. This hearing is being conducted in accordance with the applicable provisions of the meeting law, including the updated provisions enacted by the legislature this year. The new law allows the board to continue its practice of holding virtual hearings through June 20, 20, 7. This hearing of the board is being held remotely via the Zoom webinar event platform and is also being live-street. In order to ensure this hearing of the board is open to the public, members of the public may access this hearing through telephone and video conferencing. The information for connecting to this hearing is listed on today's hearing agenda, which is posted on the public notices page of the city's website, Austin.gov. Members of the public will enter the virtual hearing as attendees, which means you will not see yourself on the screen and you will be muted throughout unless administratively unmuted when asked to comment. Board members applicants and their attorneys or representatives will participate in this hearing as panelists and they will appear alongside the presentation materials when speaking panels are sure to encourage to keep video on while presenting to the board. As with our in-person meetings, comments and support will be followed by comments and opposition. The order of comments is as follows, elected officials, representatives of elected officials and members of the public. The chair may limit the number of people called upon to offer a comment and the time for commenting as time constraints require. For that reason, the board refers to hear from members of the public who are most impacted by a project that is those individuals who live closest to the project. If you wish to comment on an appeal, please click the raise hand button alongside the bottom of your screen in the Zoom webinar platform. Click it again and your hands should go down. When the host sees your hand, you will receive requests to unmute yourself. Select yes and you should be able to talk. If you are connected to the hearing by telephone, please press star nine to raise and lower your hand. You must press star six to unmute yourself after you receive the request from the host. Those called upon to comment will be asked to state their name and address first and then can provide their comment. In the interest of time and to ensure that you have enough time to do so, please raise your hand as soon as Mr. Stembridge reads the address into the record. Do not raise your hand before the relevant address is called or the meeting host will not know to call on you at the appropriate time. We ask that you keep your comments brief and all public testimony will be limited to 90 seconds for speaker. That's Mr. Stembridge. Good morning, Madam Chair. Good morning. Mr. Valencia. Good morning, Mr. Turner. Good morning, Madam Chair President. Good morning, Mr. Barbarazo. Good morning, Mr. President. Good morning, Ms. Wewell. Good morning, Madam Chair, President. Good morning, Mr. Langham. Good morning, Madam Chair. Good morning. Good morning, the floor is yours Mr. Stembridge. Thank you Madam Chair. We will begin today's hearing with your approval of hearing man's schedule for 9.30. These hearing man's hearing man's are from the dates as far. October 23rd, October 28th. October, November 6th, November 18th, and November 25th, all 2025. I will make a motion to or to roll the minutes. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yeah. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Ms. Wewell. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Sure votes yes. The motion carries. I don't think you mentioned. I don't think you asked for me. Manager. Oh, I'm so sorry. Ms. Barbarazo. Yes. Thank you. Motion carries. Next we'll move on to the extension schedule for 9.30 a.m. All the extensions are going to be reasonable. I'll read them in one after the other. If there are any questions asked after that, we can address those in Madam Chair and take them out. We'll begin with case B.O.A. 134-1467 with the address of 34-07-30409 Washington Street. Next we have case B.O.A. 134-1344 with the address of 635-188. Next we have case B.O.A. 137-127-7 with the address of 118-188 Washington Street. Next we have case B.O.A. 148-188-17 with the address of 521 Cambridge Street. Those are the extensions that we have for today. All right. There are any questions from the board. Hearing none, may I have a motion to grant the extensions as requested? Motion to grant the extensions as requested. May I have a second? Second. Thank you, Mr. Stumbridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Betapraza. Yes. Ms. Wiewell. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. The motion carries. Next we have board final, board final, opportunity case scheduled for 930. This is case B.O.A. 167-9542 with the address of 23-09-1 Street. If the applicant ends with their representative or principal, will they please explain to the board? Madam Chair, I need to recuse myself. Yes, so we are a six-member board for this case. Is Mr. Franger or someone else on for 23-09-1? Is this to you, C&E, raised hand for this? No, Madam Chair. Okay. Let me, let me, let me, if I see someone, I will let you know, but no, I don't see. Okay. So, let's keep going. We move. We move to the groundwater conservation overland district case scheduled for 930. Madam Chair, this is case B.O.A. 179-5138 with the address of 146-150 No Street. If the applicant's hand or their representative or principal, will they please explain to the board? Good morning. Thanks for the introduction. My name is David Lennpire with Goulson Instaurs at one post office where on behalf of Quinkay, the proponent, and we do have a proponent and the project team available of their questions. So, good morning, Madam Chair, and board members, that we, this project of 150 milk are also known as 75 Central Street, is part of the Plain Department's downtown office to residential conversion program. And so, as noted in the short description, it's a conversion of existing office space to 18 multifamily units. It's consistent with inclusionary zoning, so it has three affordable units. And the ground floor, in addition to having residential amenities, will be activated with continued commercial use. The project itself just went through a small project review. It received a small project review on November 13, 2025. And I'm actually, I'm not getting into too many details about the project, other than that explanation, because the only item of zoning relief is G-COT, is the, you know, Rower Conservation Ovalay District, where we're a substantial rehabilitation. And actually under the current zoning, just this site was just rezoned, substantial rehabilitation would be processed through ISD directly, although we filed previously under the, you know, under the prior zoning, where this does need G-COT approval from the board of appeals over here. And we're mainly coming to explain that we've, we're intending to install a compliant rainwater infiltration system. And we've submitted the Boston Water and sewer compliance letter, and also our project engineers, no harm certification to show that the infiltration system will be consistent with G-COT standards. And with that, we'd ask for your approval vote. Thank you. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Is Mr. Seminelli on? Yes, Madam Chair. Good morning. Members of the board, Christian Seminelli, Boston, Rower, and trust. And we have both G-COT letters from the applicant. Thank you so much. Would that, may I have a motion? Madam Chair, I'd like to go ahead. Madam Chair, I'd like to put the floor on motion of approval for G-COT. Thank you. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Thumbbrain. Good morning. Yes. Thank you. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Thumbbrain. Yes. Mr. Abraza. Yes. Ms. Meewell. Yes. Mr. Lennon. Yes. Chair votes yes. The motion carries. Thank you. Next, we have recommendations from 9.30 a.m. either from the subcommittee on Thursday to Sunday 4th. I'll be through all the work through I'll be through and then we can go on through. We can with case B-O-A, 175, 45, 94, the address of 97th power street. That was a clue. Next, we have case B-O-A, 178, 8331, the address of 1th hospital street. Next, we have case B-O-A, 177, 2325 with the address of 232 to 234 commercial street. What's the problem? Next, we have case B-O-A, 176, 403, the address of 8850 to 852, some street. Next, we have case B-O-A, 17573, 88, the address of 79 Sheridan street. This was a clue. It provides those that nothing we built on the joint property across the line and for by the department designed for. Next, we have case B-O-A, 175, 74, 78, with the address of 7th. Then we have case B-O-A, 177, 465 with the address of 12th, the right. Next, we have case B-O-A, 178, 4562, the address of 26 with the address of 178, 73, 74 with the address of 71, and the address of 757, as you have the case of the development subject. Any questions from the Board? May I have a motion? Close to two. Second. Mr. Stambridge. Yeah. What? Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Berberasa. Yes. Ms. Wewell. Yes. Mr. Langon. Yes. Mr. Voltsyess, no shankaries. Next, we move on to hearing scheduled for 930 AM. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Mr. Stambridge. Yes. Yes. Mr. Stambridge. Yes. Mr. Stambridge. Yes. Mr. Stambridge. Yes. Mr. Stambridge. Yes. Mr. Stambridge. 3430-3436. Washington Street. That would be 4 case B-O-A, 176, 590, 15, the address of 3434. 3430-3436 Y Street. Go ahead, turn the gas. Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Mark LeCas, like Casla 75 Arlington Street and Boston Attorney for the applicant. This is one of two companion cases involving two new buildings on Washington Street to make a plan that had been approved by the Planning Department in July of this year. But only one of them was advertised for today. So I spoke to Stephanie this morning and she indicated they would be able to re-advertise for this case and the second companion case, 3440-Washington Street for hearing on January 13, 2026 at 11.30am. So that is what I'm requesting. Thank you. Madam Emotion. Emotion to defer the case to January 13, 2026. Madam the second. Second. Okay. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Bronsa. Yes. Mr. Wu-Wu-Wu. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Mr. Charles-Carrie. See you then. Thank you so much. Are there any further requests for withdrawal or deferral from the 9.30am time frame? With that then we'll begin with case BOA 1769549 with the address of five West Hill employees. If the applicant and all their representatives are present, will they please explain the case to the board? Yes. Good morning, Mr. Stembridge and members of the board. My name is Timothy Burke and the architect for the project. And with me today is also the owners of Lindy and Jay Johnson are on the call. The Johnson's live in this building. It's a three unit condominium. There is a fourth condominium unit that has been on the assessor's roles for 40 years, but has never been made a dwelling unit. So we're seeking permission to convert the existing basement space to a studio apartment. It's going to be owned by the Lindy and Jay. It's really used for when their daughter visits them from she lives abroad. So the idea was to make use of this underutilized space. It creates another dwelling unit with a minimal amount of work. And a very little impact. There's no changes to the exterior. We do need relief because we're creating a new unit for off street parking, which we have no way to provide here. And also the FAR goes to 2.1, which is 2.0 is the allowable in this district. The last sheet shows the plan of the unit and be happy to answer any questions that you may have. Thank you. Are there any questions from the board? Here in Madden, may I have public testimony? Good morning, Madam Chair. And members, C Johnson with the Office of Neighborhood Services. This applicant has completed the community process. Our office host and a butters meeting on September 29th at which no concerns were raised. The Beacon Hill Civic Association is in non-office to this application. That background our office differs judgment to the board. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning, Chair. Members of the board. My name is Lily. I'm here on behalf of Councillor Durgan. After connecting with BHCA, she would like to go on our credit and support of this application. Thank you. Madam Chair, there are no additional comments. With that, may I have a motion? Madam Chair, I'd like to put four motion of approval. May I have a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Betabraza. Yes. Ms. Weewal. Yes. Mr. Langel. Yes. Chair votes, yes. The motion carries. Good. Thank you very much. Next, we have case BOA 169 4621. With the address of 562 East Physics Street. It's the applicant in the representative of President. Will they please explain to the board? Yes. Thank you, Mr. Stembridge. Madam Chair, members of the board. Attorney Ryan Spitz with Adamson Maranty. Business address of 168 H Street. First floor, Salt Boston. Ajoining today is Alex Gibson from the development team in the Project Architect, our Exadvison. This is a proposal to preserve and renovate the existing historic structure. And erect a new three-story addition to contain a total of four units with four parking spaces located in the rear. This possible consists of approximately 5,361 square feet. Propose a falls within an MFR sub-district and is aligned with the area-stated planning goals. Medium density infill housing, preserving historic structure, and increasing the availability of housing options under the cost of 2030. I'd also like to mention the applicant, prior to finally this application with the Special Services Department, has had preliminary conversations with the landmarks commission regarding the design. Hence, after working through those design conversations, this is the plan that was actually filed along with the substantial changes that were made going through the community process. The existing structure will contain unit one, while the addition will contain units two, three, and four. Unit one will contain approximately 1435 square feet and 485 square feet of basement space, which will be a three bedroom. Unit two will be approximately 1980 square feet located on the first floor of the addition. It will be a two bedroom. Unit three located on the second floor of the addition will contain 1,340 square feet, which will also be another two bedroom. Unit four located on the third floor of the addition will contain approximately 1,325 square feet will be another two bedroom. We have violations for the root structure restriction, which is a conditional use permit being sought as the building is partially being demolished in the rear and the addition exceeds the front building's height but is below the 40 foot requirement under Article 68 as this proposal is at 32 feet in total height. The extension into the rear yard of 1,000 square feet or more is another conditional use permit as the addition extends into the rear yard by more than 1,000 square feet but does not trigger any violation for the rear yard setback as the rear yard setback is currently 33 feet and 20 feet is what it was required under the sum districts. Further, the proposed FAR is at a 1.37, which is well under the 2.0 requirement under Article 68. We have a parking insufficiency code requires 1.5 parking spaces per new unit of housing and this proposal costs a four total spaces but is aligned with the major initiative of reducing dependency on private vehicles. Further, the line with the transportation department's recommended parking ratios for the area of being 1 to 1. Lastly, we have a screening and buffering violation as the parking spaces are less than 5 feet from the lot lines. However, this can be addressed during design review if approved and then also I'd just like to end Madam Chair this proposal is well aligned with the planning department's recommendation of approval. At this point, I'm going to turn it over to you for any questions or comments. Thank you. Are there any questions from the board? Hearing none, Madam Public testimony. Madam Chair and board members, see Johnson with the Office of Neighborhood Services. This applicant has completed the community process our office host to enter a butters meeting in March of 2025 after which the proposal was substantially reworked. A follow-up of butters meeting was held on August 7th, 2025 which concerns remained about parking. The gate of heaven neighborhood association is in non opposition to this proposal. Our office is also aware that the applicant forwarded a letter of support for their original version of their proposal in March to the board. That background we defer judgment to the board. Thank you. Thank you. Next, we come, Ashley. Thank you. At this time, Councillor Flin, I would also like to highlight for the board that at the outset of the community process there was overwhelming concern that a six story for a unit building did not fit in with the character of the surrounding neighborhood on East Fist Street and beyond. But since that time, the project has evolved and has been significantly from six units, down to four units, with four parking spots. The height reduced from over 43 feet to match the existing roof at 31 feet side and area of setbacks increased far reduced significantly through our stair and closed and parking in the exterior. As a result, Councillor Flin understands that these number of changes have elevated number of concerns from nearby neighbors of others in civic organizations. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, there are no additional comments. Good. Good. May I have a motion? I put forward a motion of approval. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Stambridge. Yes. Mr. Ronciev. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Bader Brasov. Yes. Okay. Thank you. Ms. Wiewel. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Let's check. Let's ask the pushing carries. Good. Thank you. Ms. Wiewel. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Let's ask the pushing carries. Good. Thank you. Next, we have case B.O.A. 176-0013. With the address of 110 West Concert Street, if the applicant is handled as a representative of the present, please. Please. Thank you. Good. Yes. Good morning. It's Marcus Springer of Springer Architects 46 Waltham Street, Courtyard 1, Boston, Mass 02118. This project is for a roof deck on the top of the rear living room structure of the name building. It will be spanning over the existing copper roof. The intent is to demolish the existing salarium, that kind of white structure on the back, and create an access stair on that to the deck above. You go to the next one. The zoning code refusal is for restricted roof structures. We met with the landmark commission on site and received a certificate of exemption from them. It's not viewable for many street, and the street it's on is exempt. We had in the butters meeting on August 26th. There were no reservations about the project during that meeting. The plan is to go to the next one. These are the plans to off the living room. You would have an access stair and an office. It's an access stair to the deck above. The deck will be cantly word over the copper roof. There are four of them. The structural plans and the four of them. The four of which are from direct butters. The question is from the board. I think what I'm missing is typically, and sometimes it's presented at the south end landmark district, is a section showing whether the structure is visible from across the street. It seems like that kind of drawing or diagram is missing. But you mentioned that you cannot see it from across the street. That's correct. Do you have drawings that disclet that or can you indicate in the roof how far off it is from the front? How do you mean how far off it is from the front? What's the offset from the roof itself? It's roughly a foot above the roof. Can you show us where it is in the roof plan? Yes, we move back to the drawings. This plan of the deck is directly above the copper roof below. If you go to the elevations, very safe. I can't see it in context. Where is this pen? How relative to the overall building? I see me. That's how typically you usually would show a section showing how visible it is from across the street. I'm just missing that drawing. That being said, it will be great to have Jeff Hampton or someone from BPD because their recommendation was denial due to an interest in having a hatch versus a pen house. It seems like the architect already put this forward in front of the South End landmark and received an initial approval. It was a letter of exemption. The area I'm questioning is not in the South End landmarks preview. It will be great to hear from BPD. Yes, he was on my list. Any other questions from the board? Okay, is Mr. Hampton on? Thank you, Madam Chair. I'm the board of Jeff Hampton, city of Boston Planning Department. Mr. Bedaburaz, I agree with you without that cross-section. We had a very difficult time. I've been around the height whether or not it was going to be visible from the street. I think that's why we're missing that cross-section and the elevation. That's why we went with the recommendation of denial. It's over the first floor in the building's four-story site. We wouldn't see it if it was going to be at all. That's just something that wasn't part of it. We didn't know if it was going to be visible from the outside. We didn't know if it was going to be visible from the outside. We wouldn't see it if it was going to be at all. That's just something that wasn't part of it. We didn't know if it was going up four-story or one-story. I see me. Sorry about that. That's why I guess you weren't understanding what that was. I didn't know what that was going to be talking about. When you were saying the roof, we didn't know if there was a four-story extension going up over that. No. The living room is on the first floor. It's just the first floor. I think I heard enough. That sounds great for explaining. Thank you so much. Any other questions from the board? May I have public testimonies? Yes, hi. My name is Dr. Moantamity. I live in unit two at 112 West Concert Street, directly next door. I'm a reporter. I'm a reporter. Oh, you're muted. You just muted yourself. Sorry about that. Yes. My name is Moantamity. And I live in unit two. I'd 112 West Concert Street, directly next door to the proposed roof deck. I strongly oppose the project. First, the deck with Sid and me, the adjacent to our living space, eliminating our privacy, and the second, we rely on two fire escapes routes from our unit, and one of them exits onto the roof at 112 West Concert. The proposed deck could block this staircase. The proposed deck and enclosed staircase could block this emergency escape path, creating a significant safety concern. Third, the proposal will negatively impact our property value and quality of life through loss of privacy, increased noise, and obstruction of natural lights, and views, including seasonal sunset exposure that we currently enjoy. Finally, the rooftop used typically includes grilling, any barbecue activity will direct smoke and odors into our windows, making it difficult to use and ventilate our home. For these reasons, I respectfully ask the board to deny this request. Thank you. Thank you. Chair, it's a gentleman over there. Any other questions? Okay. Can the applicant bring me respond to those concerns? Yes, I can. The fire escape is not blocked. The deck ends and provides for the escape from that window. So the fire escape system is left intact. The wall next to 112 is largely solid, except for that window that he was talking about, which is the fire escape, which I mentioned does not change. So that escape has to bear. The wall of 112, between 112 and 110, is a solid brick wall and a metal clad wall, which is not affected by the access stair to the deck in terms of the sunpath. The stair is articulated in such a way to minimize the mass, to just follow the stair itself. Any other questions from the board? I'm sorry, Madam Chairman, this is a board. My answer is crushed. I can provide my testimony if you'd like. Please. My name is Eva Jones. I'm representing the mayor's office to the neighborhood services, regarding 110 less conference speed, our office to first supports judgment. A community process was conducted, including a butterfly's meeting held on 826.25. That was likely attended by two self and community members who did not provide any questions or feedback. My office has also received the 14 letters of support from the applicant that were submitted to the board. And the proposal was not the catchment area of any local civic associations, and was not asking me with any regarding this proposal. At this time, the mayor's office's neighborhood services differ as to the board's judgment on this matter. Thank you, Everglow. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Hearing none is their motion. I'd like to put forward a motion to defer the case, to allow the applicant to submit two drawings, I think, would clarify. For me, at least to review the project in its whole, which would be the cross section, just to look at where the addition is in relationship to the building, the whole building. And the second drawing would be to do kind of an egress drawing to show that the egress is remaining and that the structure does not interfere with the egress, which I cannot see identified in existing drawings. That's fine. Is there a second? Second, I think this is an opportunity for the applicant to talk to an award in future about how they can improve the project. Okay, so I heard a motion on a second, Mr. Stambridge. Yes. Mr. Blanzia. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Is that a browser? Yes. Is we well? Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Chair votes, yes. Motion carries. Is there a letter? Yes. Mr. Schwerner. Yes. We're into February of the deferrals. We have February 3rd off February 24th. Mr. Schwerner. February 3rd's fine. Thank you. All right. Thank you. See you then. Bye-bye. Next, we have case B.O.A. 1688948 with the address of 47 Dell Avenue. It's the applicant and the award there represent the present. Would that please explain to the board? Good morning. Thank you, Mr. Stambridge. Anthony Mackie, architect of 47 Dell Avenue. This project is an existing three-family in the jacket. It's been used historically and taxed historically as a four unit building. This application is part of a comprehensive renovation of the building, which includes a full-gut and rebuilt. The proposal is for to make the building a legal four family, and it includes re-apportures, side porch, a headhouse at the top of the building, which includes front deck at the roof, rear deck at the roof. We are removing the existence there system inside of the building, just into its condition, and it's sort of dangerous that the proposed is for a new stairway, for the new fence, one bedroom, rear decks, and then a side deck there, as you can see. And I'll go through the violations insufficient rear yard setback due to the addition of the report. In the sufficient lot area per unit, we're hoping to make up for this with the decks to be serviced per unit. And then since we're adding a unit, we need a parking space, we're going to have room for that current. And we are adding a headhouse here. The existing height of the building is 36 feet two inches. The proposed height is 47 feet. We've done a similar renovation at 55 Dell Avenue. It came out very well. It also has a headhouse there. And it looks very, very nice. We've performed the boat's meeting. No objections were heard that time. And we also met with community aligns and mission hell. No objections were heard at that time either. I think that's the project. Any questions from the board? Here and none. May I have public testimony? Madam Chair, members of the board, Sigi Johnson with the Office of Neighborhood Services. This applicant has completed the community process. Our office of student of butter is meeting on June 25th. I wish you a butter's worth support of the proposal. The community aligns of Mission Hill is in support of this application. And our office has also four two letters of support to the board. That background, we defer judgment to the board. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, there are no additional comments. Oh, sorry. I'd like to chime in. My name is Lillian here on behalf of Councillor Dirkin. She would like to go on record and support reiterating Kim H's strong support for the project. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Without there are no additional comments. Okay. May I have a motion? Motion of approval with a review from the plan department. There is second. Second. It's December. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. It's better browser. Yes. Yes, we will. Yes. Mr. Lengom. Yes. She avoids yes. The motion carries. Good luck. Thank you, Madam Chair. 30 members of board. The next case has been deferred. So that takes us to case POA. The POA 1554854. Yeah, just 69 are apparently extreme. It's the applicant and the other members of the president. It's a complete case report. Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board. My name is Tim Longton. 1A treetop circle in Northboro. I'm the owner of 69 on Paris Street, Roxbury. It first like to offer some background on the site and explain this proposal in that context. This site, 69 on Paris Street, was originally abortion of a much larger parcel, 67 on Paris Street, which I purchased in March of 2023. I subdivided that lot in the three separate parcels. The first was 67 on Paris Street, where I reinstated and existing three fairly home. The second was 71 per street, where I built a zoning complaint in three family. And the last was this parcel, subjet parcel, 69 on Paris Street, where I'm also seeking to construct a new three family. This is a rather simple and standard three story, three family dwelling on a non-standard lot. The parcel is 6,040 square feet, and is in a 3F 4000 zoning sub-district, making the proposed three family dwelling perfectly suitable to the site. But only to the unique geography of this site. And its location behind the two other parcels I developed on Paris Street, it's only really first required to accomplish what would otherwise, like 71 per street, be a zoning complaint building. The zoning refusal letter was issued, only to four cited violations. First, there was a floor area ratio violation. Actually not certain this violation was correctly cited. The maximum that they are in zoning is .8. Here unit 1, unit 2, or each 1,360 square feet, and unit 3 is 1,413 square feet, or a total of 4,133 square feet, plus approximately 100 additional square feet of non-unit area. 4,832 square feet are allowed by zoning. If the examined account of the basement space, which has been marked on fish, it would likely exceed allowable FAR, but only to a very small extent. There's a cited front yard setback violation. The required setback is 20 feet, while the front of this building is approximately 14 feet from the lot line, separating this lot from 67 per street. That area of the 67 per street lot is a parking area, so there's no impact on the residents in that building, which is located nearly 45 feet away from its rear lot line. There was a cited rear yard insufficiency, the required setback is 30 feet, whereas the provided setback varies from approximately 11 to 12 feet. But there is a significant setback of the building to the rear from its own rear lot line, mitigating any potential negative impact from this violation. The violation is caused again by the perpendicular geometry of the lot, and is unavoidable in order to allow reasonable three family development of a lot that meets minimum lot size requirements. Also, there's a violation arising from lack of screen and buffering of the building's three spot parking area. If the board were to see fit to approve this, we would be happy to work with a planning environment on a suitable landscaping plan, as well as to refine the architectural plans and let the neighborhood design overlay district. Finally, I wish to point out that the filing access from Burton Ave was reviewed, interproved by the Boston Fire Department, and is stamped on the site plan as complying with 527 CMR. Thank you. Thank you. So, can you clarify, we mentioned Burton Ave, so does this property, will this property be exiting from Burton Ave or on to Pern? Like if I'm a resident there, how am I accessing my unit? So, when I spoke in front of the community, they wanted to, well actually two reasons. One of the community would rather have vehicular access come from two in the front Burton Ave, and secondly, the only filing access we could provide was from Burton Ave. So, that means if I live there, I'm walking into my unit from Burton Ave, but that's my question. Yes, I mean, there would be a pedestrian access from Pernstreet, but we are going to put up a fence so there would be a pedestrian pass through, but as far as parking and car access, it would all come from Burton Ave. Thank you. Other questions from the board? We're in Nightenman, Public testimony. Madam Chair and members of the board for the bracket, my name is Jeremy Bembery. I'm the Roxbury Community, I engage in specialists for the Office for Neighborhood Services. The applicant has completed the community process, which consisted of an abortus many facilitated on April 28th. That was very well attended, but not very well received by the community. Abutus for the proposal, although reduced them six to three units, were still too large for the neighborhood and the parcel. Abutus and residents of the community for the areas are ready to dense and congested, and will increase the traffic and parking issues currently experienced by the neighborhood, with the proposal having access to both Burton and Pernstreet, as well as a concern for, excuse me, as well as a concern for college students moving into the area. The civil community who oversees Roxbury Path Forward Neighborhood Association has had issues with the college students renting out in the area, and is concerned that the developer will continue to rent out to college students. Next to the point presented to Night Street, the neighborhood association on October 20th, where Abutus again felt the proposal of the reduced from six to three units, was still too large for the proposal for the parcel. Well, Office has three letters of opposition. I will read a brief description of two as they have been sent to the board for review. I will office as we see one letter from Night Street is United Neighborhood Association, Alaska Parent Association and Project Right, requesting to not allow a cut through for pedestrians and vehicles to travel to encoke in Pernstreet, and to continue to, for that to continue to, because there's due to significant public safety issues, as well as requesting a deferral for Burton Avenue residents to be fully engaged in the process. And one from Roxbury Path Forward, requesting that the polls be deferred, so that the address can be updated to Burnab from Pernstreet for clarity, and to ensure that the correct group of residents are made aware of the project. The civic has dealt with the proponent in the path of Pernstreet, which is going as of right. Thank you for your time and the mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. We'd like to defer to the board for the judge. Okay. Thank you. Next we have a green paint. Hello. I'm here today on behalf of Roxbury Path Forward Neighborhood Association. And as Jeremy said, we are very concerned that this project only entrance would be from Burnab. And I understand that now the developer or one of the developers, because there are three developers, but one of them has now said that there would be no foot access from, there would be no car access from Pernstreet, but there would be pedestrian access. But when he came to the meeting at Project Right, that's not what he said. And so we've had this several times with this particular developer that he comes to the city and says something else. So we would like to have this deferred so that we can ensure that the people on Burnab and Coltland Street, because Burnab is really like an alley, would have a chance to speak about the project as well. So thank you very much. Thank you. Madam Chair, there are no additional comments. And the developer addressed those concerns from Mr. Bemberian. Willer? Yes. So this has been under review of the community. You want to see if it passed 18 months. It's possible it could be as long as two years. So we've tried to reach out to the homeowners on Burnab, just to requesting some feedback. I tried on two occasions now, and haven't received any. We defer this last year when I proposed six units due to the neighborhood feedback. I reduced that to three. And as far as the pedestrian access from Parents Street, that is a life safety issue. So that was with the fire department. When we decided on the vehicular access from Burnab, and as far as the filing, we could put up the fence to reduce so that there wouldn't be any vehicular access from Burnab to Parents Street. But we did need to have a pedestrian exit for the folks at 69-hour Parents Street in case of emergency. So we can walk it so there wouldn't be access from Parents Street, and the only way to utilize that though would be from 69-hour Parents Street in case of emergency. But we do need, we can't just put up a fence and restrict. Pedestrian access. Prior to fire department. Other questions from the board? Yes, Madam Chair. Why understanding the burden street is a private way. Yes, so who is responsible for maintaining that? We would have responsibility on with the other residents on Burnab. Wow, would it remain a private way or would it become a city street? It would remain a private way. I think until it was, you know, a somebody proposed something to PIC. But for now, it would remain a private way. So if I were to correctly, you said you reached out to people on Burnab. And you've got no response? Yeah, we got no response. I did that twice. I was asked to do it. I met with 9 streets United a few times over the past couple of months. I just sort of checked again. I had sent mailers out twice and received nothing. And they had also told us no one from Burnab for the time of the community meetings. Thank you. Okay, any other questions from the board? Here in Nala, is there a motion? I think it was not appropriate planning department as a review. Is there a second? Back in. Mr. Stemberidge? I'm going to say, though, Madam Chair, I believe the changes are, I understand that the residents on Burnab have been a big shout out to. I believe this needs. You need to hear from someone on that street that private way, whatever. So I will, so I'll just leave it there and say nothing. Thank you. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Mr. Turner? No. For reasons of, I would hope for a better community process. I agree with Mr. Stemberidge. And also, I know that there are concerns around people who live on Copeland Avenue as well. So I'd like to encourage the applicant to reach out to those folks as well. Ms. Barranza? Yes. Ms. Wewell? Yes. Mr. Langham? I'm going to vote no, too. The Chair votes no, the motion does not carry. Is there another motion? Motion of the thorough, Madam Chair. Is there a second? Taken. Mr. Stemberidge? Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Ms. Turner? Yes. Ms. Barranza? Yes. Ms. Wewell? Yes. Mr. Langham? Yes. Chair votes yes. The motion carries. So, February 3rd, October 24th. Does that have to be right, third? Which one's that? Outside, February 3rd. Okay. And does that give you sufficient time? The additional outreach that the board has recommended? Okay. Thank you. Next, we have case B.O.A. 173-0685 with the address of 10 Hackle Street. It's the applicant's end or their representative of the present. Would they please request the case and vote? Is there any? Yes. I was going to say, Chris Wise, is the applicant for this project here? I don't see anybody for this project at the moment. Well, then come back to it. Okay. So, move on now to case B.O.A. 173-0685. 3253 with the address of 53 Brown Avenue. If the applicant is in or their representative of the present, would they please respond? Yes. My name is Timothy Sheen. I'm at 9 Wall Street in Charlestown. I'm the architect for the project. My client Fred is the builder. He's on as well. Basically, what we want to do is put a single family house on this lot. It's an existing, it's an existing undersized parcel. It's 35 feet wide. And the majority of the houses are 50 or 55. But it's adjacent to, we're not 35 foot parcel. And two houses away, there's also a 37 foot parcel with almost identical house on it. So, just in particular, the house itself, what we want to do is create a 30, 30, I'm sorry. Yeah. 32, 32, 94, gross square feet, which puts us over on the FAR. But what we're trying to do is build a three story, two main stories in a gate, a little story, go to master, there'll be four bedrooms, four baths. The big difference from number 45 down the street, which is very similar, is we don't want to have the parking at the front. So, we've turned it around from the A to Street side. So, we have two garage spaces under a deck, and there's a 50 foot driveway, which they could park in as well, I suppose. My client has dealt with the West Village Neighborhood Association. There's some landscaping issues as well. And we've worked with them on this as well. And as far as the violations go, we have a few of them here. Our refusal letter had a lot of area insufficient. It's a 4,200 square foot lot, a 6,000 minimum. The width is at 35 feet, it's under the 50 required. Side yards have to be 10 feet. We have a 22 and a half foot wide house on a 35 foot lot. So, right and left are like 6.2 and 6.3. And then, yeah, front edge I talked about, front edge is at 35 feet. Our neighborhood process has gone well so far. Like I said, we dealt with the West Village Neighborhood, the Neighbors Association. And basically mostly about landscaping. And that's the project. Any questions, please, please let me know. Thank you. Are there any questions from the board? Yes, I have a question. So landscaping issues, I understand there's a maple tree on the project. Can you talk a little bit about how you would like deal with the tree and the other landscaping issues if there are any? Unfortunately, sugar maples right in the middle of the site. It's a 24 inch caliper tree. So we removed that one. There's another existing 18 inch caliper sugar maple at the back right looking from brown ad. So we can keep that. And our plan was to add three trees. In the front we do a flowering dogwood. On the back, looking from atistry to the right, we can get in a Japanese cherry and a Japanese alcovo. And then I've got various plantings. We went back and forth with the neighbors with the association a bit. But we got to the point where we had a plan that they were happy with. And that's what we do. Like I said, that tree in the middle, it's almost directly in the middle of the site. And the root ball, it's got to be out, you know, it covers 50% of the lot. So there's just no way to save that tree in the middle. But we can see the other existing good sized 18 inch caliper sugar maple. We'll keep that. Thank you. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Is there an existing curb cut for you to have access to the back? I don't believe so. No, I can just look on Google Earth. We'll quick in the back because there's no. Not the front. I mean, in the back. Yeah, in the back. Well, we're doing the parking from the back. And there's really no parking there. Right. But so I don't see a curve. I don't see in your block land. Oh, they're doing it back. I don't think there's a sidewalk there. My client speaking. I don't think you can hear. It's like a morning. Thanks for having me. There is not a sidewalk back. Yeah, that's right. Coming off an aator. It's it would be repaid going in there. But currently there is not a sidewalk or curb cut. Is it. Is it. Is it. Is it. Is it. Is it flush or you know, do you have to say the curb cut? Not necessary. Well, to create the driveway, you would do have a curve, a quote unquote curve cut. However, he driving into the air. Speak up is basically is basically. It is a private road. Being a private road, we would create it just like. Normally, but the curb cut per se just comes in flush with the grade. Is it currently. I think I said existing asphalt as a currently being used as a parking space. Yes, that I'm sorry. Are you currently using it as surface parking? Yes, the surface parking on bulls eye things is the extra house next door. 55 brown out is. Two car garage, which is next door separate lot. You separate lot. It'd be in the private road. Make a similar approach to our on the garage under. Good. I don't have any further questions. Thank you. Thank you. Are there any other questions from the board? May I have public testimony? Madam Chair and members of the board for the record. My name is Jeremy Bembery. I'm the Roslanddale community engagement specialist for the Office of the Neighborhood Services. The applicant has completed the community process, which consisted of on the boat as meeting facilitated on July 8th, where it put its voice concerns and two of the voice opposition to the proposal and line with many of the concerns of the boaters. A boat is felt the lot is too small in the area is too dense and too congested, and also voice concerns are prockening and increased traffic. Another concern was water runoff and groundwater and how adversely affect the foundations of a boat and properties coupled with another concern, which was the lack of green space and trees, which will exacerbate the groundwater concern and may cause more flooding in some residents already experienced. Because of this concern, the boaters requested to maintain the current green space and trees on the property. A direct and boater voice concerns was set back as a distance from their boat and home, as less than required, leaving the proposal encroaching on their property. Next, the proponent was connected to West Village and neighborhood association, where a landscaping plan was submitted that the neighborhood association felt was a good compromise to compensate for the loss of the 100-year-old sugar vehicle. Tree in the community process was completed. Thank you for your time and the mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services, we'll like to defer to the boat for their judgment. Thank you. Thank you. Madame Chair, there are no additional comments. Okay. Any other questions from the board? Is there a motion? Madame Chair, I'd like to put forward a motion of approval with a provisal that the project undergoes site plan review with BPD to ensure that a replacement of the trees is an equal because it is a very mature tree that's being removed. There are a second. Back in. Mr. Fembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Berraza. Yes. Mr. Wielow. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Better go to the motion carries. Thank you, everybody. Thank you for your time. Next, we have... Excuse me. One moment. Next, we have case B.O.A. One seven seven five four five two. Just again. Case B.O.A. One seven seven five two four two. With the address of one heartland road. It's the applicant's end or the representative of further with it please explain the case to the board. Yes. Thank you, Mr. Fembridge. Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board. Attorney John Paul Jeannie here on behalf of the proposal at one heartland road in West Roxbury. I am joined today by Antonio Farah who is the project proponent. One heartland road West Roxbury zoning a single family six thousand. Last size is 4,640. 45 square feet. The proposal is to raise the existing structure which is a vacant, a allocated I-so-we're building located at 157 Baker Street and in its place build a new three-story single family house with a one-cog or attach garage as well as it'll have one additional parking space in front of the garage if it's needed. The new house will be... will now face heartland road rather than Baker Street as the existing house does not have a curb clapper opening and we thought it was best to utilize the side street. We are to provide safer access to the driveway and to the garage. The proposal is to build a four bedroom to an half bathroom house. It will be approximately 2157 square feet of living space. Our violations where FAR allowed is four where it will point four six. The area is 6,000 plus 6,45. Frontage is 60 where 5766. Front yard setback is 20 required where 18 and then rear setback is 30 and 12. On the rear setback the rear of the house, the property that it butts on Baker Street on that side of their house they have approximately an 18 foot driveway. The two of them is well off of that house and that a butter who is most impacted has signed the letter of support and submitted that to the board. If you look to the plans on page one of the plans that are included this is just a site plan showing the new house's orientation as well as the dimensional setbacks. Page two is a front elevation of the home. Page three is a left side elevation. Four is the rear elevation. Five is the right side elevation and page six is a piece of plan which will be unfinished and used to house the home's mechanicals. Page seven is the first floor plan, excuse me, showing a kitchen, dining room, living room, half bath in the location of the garage. Page eight is the second floor plan which will have three beds and two beds and page nine is the attic plan which includes a bedroom. Composal went through a full community process, culminating with our presentation to the West Roxbury-Naywood Council where the proposal received full support. Additionally, we have provided the board with approximately 12 letters of support from all continuing with subbuttors as well as other neighbors. That's a presentation I'm happy to answer any questions that anybody has. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? Yes, I am on the site pop and I don't see you the curb cut access to the garage. So thanks for the questions. We are adding a curb cut on heart line and we chose that side street as it is obviously left much less traveled in Baker Street. So there will be a curb cut that we will have put in there that will provide access to the garage. Okay, so you're going to be putting that permanent application for the curb cut. We just want seeing it on the side plot plan. Yes. Okay. Okay, great. Thank you. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? May I have public testimony? Madam Chair and Board members, Cigi Johnson with the Office of Neighborhood Services. This application has completed the community process. Our office is hosted in a butters meeting on October 15th. And a butters support of the proposal. A director butter raised a concern about the sewer line to their house running through this property from the street. The applicant met with the West Rocksbury Neighborhood Council which is in support of the application. The applicant has sent 12 form letters of support to the board. Six of the addresses signed on the letters are in the 300 foot up butters radius. That background our office to first judgment to the board. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, there are no additional comments. May I have a motion? Madam Chair, I'm going to just put this project forward with an approval. It's a pretty straightforward project. And it seems like it works with the context of West Rocksbury in terms of the residential housing stop. There's second. Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Is better browser. Yes. Is we well? Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. Mr. Stembridge, the motion carries. Thank you, everybody. Next, we have case B.O.A. 177-2133 with the address of 106 Eastwood Circuit. If the applicant and no other representative present. Mr.<|tl|><|en|> Commission. Madam Chair. Okay. I need to look at myself from this case. Okay. Thank you, Mr. Valencia. We are now a six-member board for this case. Good morning, ZBA board. My name is Stephen Cutterpass. I'm the architect for this particular project. This is an existing house. The existing house is a non-conforming 1600-square-foot house, which is one and a half, currently one and a half stories. We're proposing to extend the house up to a second floor and then an attic, which would be fully utilized, deeply into the forest and the whole area. Right. Together, we may have a several separate brick building as you can see. Now we're okay with spoons and zoom and what.Good day for us. My first car. Today is fun. Where do many other people want to play? I'm not sure if you're used to this thing watching. Yeah. Scott M. Ithan, sorry. We have older people waiting for us further due this day. And going to the crashing of the driven cars. Do you agree that you want to display your witness. Would you pay rent this place? Of course, little party person. And Will County Friction Cityrants say it has not an active house where lower. I'm like a pri want forリa. Can you release it, Dan? Okay. Hopefully. The addition to the house is only a 1,000, 5,500 square feet, the existing house is 1,600 square feet. And from the street, it has the appearance as any typical two and a half story home. And the rear has a dome out, which is a slightly larger than half the length of the building, and it kicks us into the third story. Okay, I have no questions from the board. Hearing none, ma'am, public testimony. Madam Chair and board members, C Johnson with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services, this applicant has completed the community process are office hosted in a butters meeting on September 25th, at which no concerns were raised. The West Grantsbury Neighborhood Council in support of this application. But that background, our office, deferreds judgment to the board. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, we have one person, Jim Kennedy. Do you have 19 seconds? Yes, thank you, Madam Chair. For full disclosure, I am a plan examiner with the instructional services department, but I am not giving testimony. I'm giving testimony today as a butter. I tried to give testimony at the West Grantsbury Neighborhood Council meeting, but the meeting was supposed to take place at 7 p.m., I arrived at 6.50 and the meeting had already concluded, so I do not know why that happened, but now I'm here to give testimony today. I'm a little concerned about the design. Being as another building, we'll have two front doors, a staircase that leads directly to the upstairs, where the second floor appears to have what they're calling a webbar, but it's basically the same size and shape as the kitchen below. My concerns, obviously, there are no other three-story buildings in the neighborhood. I understand it's, it meets the height requirement and feet, but not in stories. The lot is small, concerned about the FAR compared to the seniority of pre-existing non-conforming structure. This will further extend that non-conformance, but my real true concern, and maybe the applicant might be able to answer this, is what are the true designed plans for this building? I mean, is this going to become a two-family, or maybe some kind of a looming house, or an Airbnb, because the design kind of speaks to that, so that was really my biggest concern. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Sure. The current situation of the family stopped. The current situation of the family is that the two elder parents are living in progress. Living the house, and they are in need of having their son, daughter-in-law, and two children moving with them because of the pressures of the economy and whatnot. And so, understanding that, they wanted a little bit of privacy between the son's family and themselves. And so, the arrangement was for the interior design was basically decided upon the way in which you look at it now. It was to try to give as much separation between the two families, but at the same time, it's being maintained as a single family, and as being maintained with a single family, it's just trying to create a more comfort zone for the three general family to be able to live together. This is not the first kind of project that I've done. I've done other projects in the past, where we had 11 bedrooms, because we had a small general family living together. So, at the number of bedrooms, there's five, two in the first floor, three, two in the first floor, one in a second, and two above, total five bedrooms. But the reason why it's arranged the way it is, is because we have a multi-generational family basically living together. I don't believe I've not had any discussions with the owner, as to whether he intends to divide it into two, but perhaps she can speak to that, I believe he is at me, to come and play. That's your own concrete. Conneran. Hello, can you hear me? Yes, sir. I guess, me and my wife moved down to the first floor, and we've been living down to the first floor for approximately a few years, because we're not getting older, and we don't need to be climbing stairs. We had the whole second floor empty, we were discussing, we spent a lot of time with that grandchildren or children that were nice to create a space for them. It's only intended for my immediate family, and to drive through them a hand, in terms of believing some of their right pressure, but the intent is for the remain a single family home, with me and my family living there, and just giving them like Steve said, the privacy of a space that we're using anyhow. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? May I have a motion? I put forward a motion of approval with... Yeah, I put forward a motion of approval. Okay, there's second. Second. Mr. Stunbridge. Yeah. Mr. Valencia of P. Richardson Solve, Mr. Turner. Yes. Is better Braza. Yes. Is we well? Yes, yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Chair votes, yes, the motion carries. Thank you very much. Thank you. Next, we have two companion cases. The first is case B.O.A. 174-7263. With the address of 25 Royal Street, along with that, we have case B.O.A. 174-7259, with the address of one Empire Street. It's the applicant's hand, or their representative, President. Please explain these cases to the board. Good morning, Madam Chair and members of the board. My name is Paul Wufo, Smith Duggan, Koyal and Gala, 101 Arch Street in Boston. With me today, I'm an attorney in Boston. With me today is the architect Steven Chung, and also the owners of Father and Son, Aki Olia, OLIA, and Ali Olia. Ali lives on Hooker Street, which is around the corner, in a building that was developed by his father a number of years ago. So they have our owners in this immediate neighborhood, and have owned this property, which is a bit of a, there's four lots together, you can see there on the site plan. And there are two vacant lots that one block 57 Hooker Street has a two family on it, which is not going to be affected here. And there are two vacant lots, which they would like to put two and three family houses. So just to run you through the violations, then I'll turn it over to the architect. Oh, I'm sorry, just quickly. We did have a robust community process. We had an abouters meeting with thanks to ONS, and we also went to the Austin Civic Association, presented these projects. I believe representative will speak about that, was fairly well received. We also went to the Brighton-Australian Improvement Association and got their input, thanks to the input of the director butters, and in the neighborhood association, we made some tweaks to the project, including adding additional open space, which you'll hear about. It's as quickly a violations, would be use. This is a two family 5,000 square foot zone, proposing a three family triple decker, a style, the dimensions, setback, a model front, setback, left side, and rear yard for 25-wheel street. FAR and lot size. The height, actually the height is going to be only 31 feet, where 35 feet is allowed, but the number of stories is 2.5 stories, and we're proposing three stories. So we need to prepare really for that. And then finally, parking five parking spaces would be required for three units, and we're providing three off-road street parking spaces, one space per unit. If you want to, the same, the similar process for one empire street, which is a bus, they'll buy each other on the rear, and Mr. Chung will take you through that. Same process, we presented them at the same time, since these, actually three properties are going to work together, to access one of the parking spaces, as Stephen will explain to you, we'll need a small easement over the 57 Hooker street to access the Austrian parking space, which would be underneath the 25 Royal Building, but he'll explain that. The violations that are the same for one empire street, are very similar. So that's the thumbnail of the proposal. So we'll go over to Stephen Chung, our architect, to walk you through the plans and the presentation. Thank you. So, Mr. Chung, just as you're presenting, can you keep in mind two comments from the Displodies Commission and just answer that at the appropriate time during your presentation? They mentioned that unit A appears to be a basement, plus, first of all, to the local unit. If we got a hand at me, thank you. Unit A appears to be a basement and first floor unit. First floor, two level unit, as this is the ground floor unit, it must have access accessible route between levels and then it also mentions for 25 Royal Street, what is the accessible route from the parking to the entrance that you need all their requirements for an accessible route. So just to keep that in mind, when you're presenting to us. Okay, can you, do you mind to stop right there? Thank you from the board for warning. Yeah, it's for the purpose of this submission. I mean, we broke apart because of their separate laws, but I wish I could show my design drawings, which really show the three parcels, because the yellow house, the left on that rendering, is also owned by the, by the Olias. And then the green building that you're looking at is really in question. But then to the left of that is this other site. And really, we looked at this as holistically as kind of a master plan, replacing that fence that goes around all through properties, creating landscaping for all through properties, and really tried to think about it holistically, so that was always sort of part of the thinking. And then also that there was a previous proposal, which was quite a bit larger. And I think that, I mean, I wasn't part of that, but just going back through the community, intellect, and really sort of understanding that, I think that the larger building I was proposed earlier, I mean, was probably the wrong direction, and really trying to find a typology scale that was more keeping with what's around it, was really the right approach, which is what we eventually did. So what you're looking at is, as Mr. Rufo said, is kind of a triple-decker inspired block, which is sort of staggered and bumped to follow the site, which as you see is curbing. And there's really basically three units, one per floor. There is parking that's accessed from the left. And there's this incurred cut. And the sort of took back that ramps down underneath the building. The site just happens to slope up, so it really creates an opportunity where when the ramp goes down, you're able to sort of park underneath that building. So, if you want to scroll ahead a little bit, but basically, I mean, I think that the key things that Paul had mentioned, three stories, it's less than what's allowed, and really, a thousand square foot units, these are three bedrooms. There's the parking that's underneath. That's ramping down. And then, in this three parking with that three-bedroom, and really, these are all, you know, well, very comfortable with three-bedroom apartments with kind of an attached deck balcony, somebody you'd see in triple-deckers. They're in that area. I think that the meetings we basically just really tried very hard to kind of listen and respond to kind of some of the comments about the expression, which are sort of where we're going to windows, bothered sliding, really, again, with the sort of typology of triple-deckers. Any questions? Did you want me to address the accessibility issue? Yeah, if you could, that would be great. So, maybe go to the floor plan. And again, what was the question was... The accessibility issue, Chair Dong, is on the access from the parking to the entrance. There was no comments on the interior. So, from the parking, I mean, there was a stair on the ground floor plan. That stair that then leads up to the main floor. I don't know if that answers any. Then on the ground floor, if you go to the ground floor, there is something... It's basically what's the accessible route... From the parking. From the entrance, yeah. So, I think you're just missing... Like a route of sorts. I mean, it's indoor, so... I'm not sure what they're looking for specifically, because it's not like you have an ADA elevator from inside the parking. Right, yeah. So, I don't really know how to answer other than on the ground floor, you see there. Because the topography of the site, there is some ramp, because there are some steps of the entry to get to the lobby. And then from the parking, it really is just going through the stair, or I mean, I don't think the ramp is actually the... It's not a desirable path. For someone that's in wheelchair or something. Other questions from the board? No, but I could... I could include some accessibility in the decision, but I would like to thank you. Okay, let's take public testimony. Madam Chair and board members, Siggy Johnson with the Office of Neighborhood Services, the set applicant has completed the community process. Our office hosted an abouters meeting on September 10th, which in the butter rates concerns, about the design of the structures and the amount and design of the usable open space. The Alstensific Association has sent a letter of support to our office into the board, with that background, our office, and the staff. Thank you. Madam Chair, there are no additional comments. Hello? Yes. Hi, my name is Josh Keating. I'm a local resident. Is it not the time to speak? Are you speaking on this one-empire or 25-year-old street? Yes. Okay, so state your name and address for the record. I'm going to go to the department. I'm going to go to the department. This is my first time doing this. This is all new to me. I came very excited to really settle down here, start a family with the introduction of the link at 525 Lincoln Street. Over the course of the five years I've been here, parking has just really gotten decidedly worse. It's the point where that may be the make a break decision for me to move with my family elsewhere. So, I feel like it's just really hard to get ahead of that as parking is bad. This is kind of just the college town. It seems like this has some violations regarding parking. I don't really know all the details of what's going on, but I just saw the flyer came my way. I saw the meeting. I figured I'd mention that parking is definitely a problem. Got a lot worse with the link, and it seems like it's going to continue getting worse here. It's hard for me to find a spot when I get home from work these days, but I get home early to find a spot where it's when I first moved in. That was not an issue. Thank you. Thank you. I'm going to check the other additional comments. I don't know if that we can want to address the comment about parking. Maybe Paul, you can speak to that. We've provided one space per unit, which I would suggest goes along with the BPD recommendations these days. Also, we're going to be freeing some parking along the Empire Street side. That's previously not available, but by developing that Empire Street, that's actually a public street, and they will be parking a lot on the side, at least one or two spaces there along that side. We are certainly sympathetic to the parking issue there. That's why we're providing at least one space per unit of a street parking. Any other questions from the board? May I have a motion? Madam Chair, I'd like to put forward a motion of approval, whether it provides it at the project meets accessibility requirements. Thank you. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Beda-Baza. Yes. Ms. Wiewel. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. The motion carries. Good luck. Thank you, Madam Chair. That motion applies to both proposals. Correct. Mr. Great. Thank you so much. It wasn't Madam Chair. Yes, it seems we approached the 11 o'clock hour. Oh, and we just take a five-minute break then. Give it a chair. Yes. Sorry to interrupt. I think there was one person for one of the cakes that we met. Oh, was there? Okay, sorry. Thank you. Hi. Hi. It isn't comforting. This is this comment. It was for the. It was. Okay. This was. Manyiance overframe. Thank you, Mr. Gua-si-umul. Why not move— Because, you're from the beginning, okay. Let's let Mr. Stembridge relocate that. That was the FAA. No, I located 30 or 20. Both are not there. Both are not there. Whoa. Okay. So that would be for Boy, final offer in the case. For the case, be aware. 167542 with the address of 23 not in Amstery. Would you go ahead and please explain? Thank you, Mr. Stembridge. Thank you, Madam Chair, members of the board for accommodating the schedule change. This matter was, my name is Timothy Fraser from the law firm of Dane Torpe 175 of Federal Street in Boston. This matter was before the board on February 25th, at which the board granted variances for this MOH led project to construct a three-story multi-family residential building with five of, rather, with 12 affordable units. And eight off street parking spaces on a newly combined vacant lot. Would be submitted the plans. We intend to combine vacant lots to total 12,496 square feet. The refusal letter and the agenda and decision referenced the combination of three lots, but this is actually the combination of four lots that comprise that 12,496 square feet. So before the board for board, final offer to just have the decision corrected to reference the combination of four parcels rather than three parcels. And again, the plans that we submitted to ISD and everything tracks with the four parcels. It's just the decision that references three. Okay. Are there questions from the board? Is there a motion? Motion to approve. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Turner. Yes. Ms. Weewall. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. The motion carries. Thank you Madam Chair. Thank you. Members of the board. Now I understand that 10 heckla is here now. Yes. What's that? We'll return to case. Beowing. 1730685 with the address of 10 heckle street. Go ahead and explain what. Okay. Jerry. We'll see if I'm half of the streets. She's on the day. I should let me eliminate. Okay. Hello. Hi. Hello. Yes. Hello. Yes. Are you here to present for 10 heckla? Yes. Thank you. That's okay. Can you state your name and address for the record? Yes. Can you state your name and address for 10 heckla? Yes. I'm here for 10 heckla street. We're hoping to seek relief for the said violation for to come and eat the community needs for more housing for our property. Hello. We can hear you. Can you please proceed? Yes. I'm sorry if I'm just anything because today I'm not prepared. I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry if I'm just anything because today I have a lot of things in my hand. My biological pass away. So that's why there's a lot of things I'm not prepared. I'm so sorry. But we're hoping to get relief on the three right now. The two family occupancy is the two family. Then we're trying to convert it to three family to hopefully get more to help with the accommodate with the housing needs. And I know that it was denied because of the square footage, I believe, or the space in the parking space. So we're hoping if you can help us get this approved so we can. Hello. Can you hear me? Yes, I'm sorry. This is my. Yes. And this is my first time at the meeting too. I remember having a good boss. I mean, I'm so like I said, we're hoping to get to convert it from a two family to a three family. It feels to really help what to accommodate with the community too. And there's anything that's needed for us to face that as well. So just to confirm, it looks like from this, you're not extending the footprint. You're just going up. Is that what's happening? Yes, sir. Okay. And sorry for you loss. Any other questions from the board? Hearing none may have public testimony. Madam Chair and members of the board for the record, my name is Jeremy Bimbery and the Dirt Chester Community Engagement Specialist for the Office of Neighborhood Services. The applicant has completed the community process. What's consistent of a neighborhood is being facilitated on July 31st with no one who has present no concerns or raised. Next, the reporter presented the Meeting House Health Civic Association who voted in support of the proposal. To date, our office has not received any further community feedback at this time. Thank you for your time and members of the office and members of the services elected to part of the board with their judgment. Hello, Madam Chair and members of the board, Lane Remains from Council for the Surround Office, our sub-like on-records for the proposal. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, we have somebody from the public. Jane Schoo. Jane Schoo. I'm not sure if you are speaking for this case. But you have a question. No, I just call my own case. Maybe I reached handed to earlier. Sorry. All right. Madam Chair, there are additional comments. Okay. Thank you. With that, may I have a motion? Motion to approve. Second. Thank you. Mr. Stembridge. In the end. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Ms. Barbarossa. Yes. Ms. Viva. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Ms. Churrent. Ms. Churrent. Yes. Mr. Kary's about to know. Thank you so much. Thank you so much for everything. Thank you. Thank you. With that, we will now move on to the. Cases to the hearings scheduled for. For 11 o'clock. And before we begin with those cases will ask the director. We begin with those cases will ask the Thursday and request for withdrawals or the throws from the 11 o'clock time crack Good morning, Mr. Secretary 180 180 to Sabahill Avenue I can't use his as well Yes, those case those two cases are case B.O.A. 178 3686 The address of 180 to 180 to 711 Along with that case B.O.A. 173689 Also with the address of 180 to 180 to 711 Would you go ahead? Thank you very much Good morning, madam jam members of the board. My name is James Christopher with the bit of six eight six architects with the business address of 10 for this road and Brain tree mass here today on behalf of the owner Christopher Thomas C.E. for 180 180 to 711 you and requesting a very brief deferral This project has been through a neighborhood process, but we very recently learned that there was a butter that had some concerns So we'd like a brief deferral to be with that client and try to address them so that we can bring the project to the board for approval What Yeah, we'll take favor again, okay, we'll that may have motion Motion to fed you whether to third Better second Mr. Stumberg Mr. Valencia. Yeah, this is kind of yes It's better brazo. Yeah Is we well. Yes, Mr. Langham. Yes Sure, well, it's yes, the motion carries you then. Thank you Good morning, Mr. Secretary. This is attorney Mike Ross for 567 Adam Street Thank you, attorney Ross. So this would this will be for case be awake 179 0972 The address of 56577 Thank you, good morning, ma'am chair. Remember for this is we've been requested by St. Mark's area civic association to Come back for a follow-up meeting based on our last meeting month ago month and a half ago and the client's great to do so to try to Get there with the neighbors association so we'd like to do that have a brief deferrals that we can come back in Hopefully with those small changes to the plan Okay, Stephanie if same dates 21 A favorite there would be great please man motion Motion to defer this case until February 3rd There's second that good Mr. Stembridge Yes, Mr. Valencia. Yes, Mr. Turner. Yes This better brazo. Yeah This we will yes Mr. Langham. Yes, Sherville. It's yes motion carries. See you then. Thank you. Thank you so much Mr Ladies Yes, good morning on the system bridge. It's 191 bookstreet. Please Beau a 179 0800 With the address of 191 bookstreet Go ahead Thank you Richard Lane's Business address at 2.45 Understreet East Boston behalf of the petitioner. Good morning. Madam chairman was the board asking for brief deferral we had a chance to review the plan of our recommendation and think we can make some adjustments to address Several comments at least if not all the comments So we're asking for brief deferral we go ahead and it goes updates Okay That right third a 24 and this would be the last one for that right third Uh, February 3rd, please. Thank you. Hey with that may have a motion Motion to defer to February 3rd I have a second that is Mr. Stembridge Yeah, Mr. Valencia. Yes, Mr. Turner. Yes, this better brazo. Yes This we will yes Mr. Langham. Yes Chair votes. Yes motion carries. See them. Thank you very much. I'm happy in St. Oliver season 2 So with that we'll return to the hearing schedule for 11 a.m. And we'll be getting with case to be away 170 5643 With the address of 101 P Street If the askets and or their represent no present or their points Uh, hello Madam chair members of board. This is our exact person architect for the project and believe the owners Online also, but I will walk you briefly through the project. This is an existing single family home which we are Ex- Expanding to the rear there no changes to the front of the building that a very important neighborhood But we are proposing to expand 12 foot 10 inches to the rear on both levels one and two removing that existing summer home and adding space on the rear so if you Grow forward a little bit you'll see that no changes to the basement on this drawing You see the dark area at the top of the page and the addition on the first floor Should be a larger kind of family playroom and then up above where it's bending to as we guess sweet or sweets on the level two um to make them kind of larger bedroom sweet rooms And then if you scroll forward you can see in the elevation No changes to the front of building very important the neighborhood on the sides The building slopes from front to back. So the additional be Not continue the the line of the roof, but we'll have kind of a raised roof so that the spaces in the rear have full height But that's briefly the project and we'll be there for any questions and that Thanks for any any questions from the board Hearing none may have public testimony good morning. Madam chair and board members He wants with the office of neighborhood services is applicant as completed the community process our office And a butter's meeting on October 15 that which a butter is supportive of the application No concern for raise the city point neighborhood association is not opposed to this application that background our office deferred judgment to the board. Thank you Thank you. Thank you next we have Brian Hurley Hello, Madam chairwoman members of the board Brian Hurley here on behalf of senator Nick Collins Heard to offer our support for the project at 101 Peach Street Thank you Thank you next without actually from city council to flim Thank you council for my life. Go on record and support based on a good community process and the proponent working closely with neighbors and butters in the city point Neighborhood association you're specfully request that the proponent continues to work with the community during the construction days. Thank you Thank you next we have eight Luan Yes, good morning Madam chair and the board Luana, the president city point neighborhood association The a butter's meeting was held the proponent reached out to all butters hand director butters. There was absolutely no opposition He specifically did not put a roof deck in his plans, which is very supportive of CPNA and we think it's a good project It doesn't affect down the architecture of the housing stop. So we are in support of it. Thank you. Thank you Madam chair there is just one person in the chat that also Elen is meet is she's in support Thank you. Well that may have a motion Motion to approve second Mr. Stembridge Yes Mr. Luancia. Yes Mr. Turner. Yes This better browser. Yes, this will. Yes, Mr. Langham. Yes Chair votes yes, the motion carries goodbye Here next we have case B owing 168 873 or With the address of 69 Highland Street If the applicant and those that represent our president will say please apply the case before Still good morning everyone. I'm an image Joel Hopper and from Big Shirt Construction. Speaking on Haskell, I'm manual For 69 Highland Street Pretty much what we're looking to do is to add the basement to the first floor limits base. We did go to the city We went through the purchase meetings the committee meetings the neighborhood meetings to get approval and also We put permits on it long story short When the poppies buy look at the prior owner they put the They made a second full basement but since then we removed the bedrooms to all the walls and made easy access for the electrical panels for the second floor and third for unit to be able to To enter any point in time, but we just want to know if we can add the liver space from the basement make a direct creation for the first full unit Okay, either questions from the board Here none may have public testimony Madam chair and members of the board for the record my name is Jarron V. Vembrery and the Roxbury Community Engageant Specialist with Office of Negroed Services The applicant has completed the community process which consists of an abutus meeting facilitated on September 30th That was very lightly attended by all increase and concerns where it dressed such as the location of the gas meters moving from inside to outside For access sprinkler systems as well as a discussion of it provides or to stop the basement from being an apartment or unit in the future Next the proponent presented to Highland Park neighborhood association on October 15th where they voted in support of the proposal Thank you for your time in the mayor's office and the Board service will like to defer to the board picture Thank you Thank you, they are no additional comments And without their motion No Miss kiss Hello Darryl is me And if you're speaking for this case I know what happened You this person Probably is not for this case for about that but we have another person Okay, sorry Where were we? Is there motion Hello, can I speak? Oh, okay Okay Yeah, Karen Smith is for 69 Highland Street. She is one of the unit owners upstairs But I'm gonna speak for myself I was at the abutters meeting and they did they did talk about the concern about the gas meters Getting moved to the outside We did have our meeting this month at the start of December and it was mentioned that There were unsure if the gas meters were going to be able to move to the front Because they didn't know if they could get coded for it So my my only concern is just I want to make sure that those gas meters are moved to a place that we can access them Because currently right now the second floor or the third floor units are not able to access The gas meters without having to go through the first floor Yeah, so we are pulling our lawn from which is the ALT permit to the city of Boston So we took the stopper can I just make sure we wrap up? I am still trying to speak Sorry, okay And Karen is muted. Can you unmute yourself so you can provide testimony? You're muting yourself. I think so you need to unmute yourself. Okay Okay, okay Thank you. Okay Need speak and then I'll speak That person spoke already so if you can provide your brief testimony as to whether you're in support or opposition and why that would be helpful Opposition Completely is I Was informed about this yesterday afternoon Seven hours ago To find out This was even happening the next thing I have been my husband and I own unit three in that building and We got the abudders notice about a meeting two days before Then now seven hours before this and I I'm just stunned that we were not informed that all of this was happening in the basement of the building until way after it had happened so No Okay, don't we don't want this to happen we It the Home owners trust should have blocked A sale to the person who kindly has it I'm just so upset about all of this Thank you, ma'am Are there any other raised hands? I'm the owner of the unit they the consumerized sir please proceed So my name is in manual cassey and the owner of unit one six nine five and three and The unit three owner concern I don't think This majority has been following the Indian communications all so you three have three owners Miss mechardis 25% and the 75% owners have been informed in attended all meetings and all notifications has been sent by email and by both in the environment Notices appropriately and the other unit number two owner can attest to that I I I don't think the reason for the objection Was accurate. We have all email documentation On the time it was sent The reason um the seven hour is yesterday once we got the link for this meeting I went above and aboard and sent them a link through email. Hey tomorrow is the meeting So if you are interested to attend this is them meeting and that's what she's referring But that's me being a little more Trying to include them so that they don't miss it But all notifications has been sent on time and recorded on to really made as well Okay, is there anyone else for public testimony that's not the applicant. So we're not gonna repeat people Yes, madam chair there two more people now the teachers Uh Malik is me You can meet yourself. Please just tell your name another and you have 90 seconds I'm going my name is Malik Smith one of the owners of unit three. I think what Uh Karen is talking about in this goes to the prior owner was just that What ended up initially happening wasn't brought to the cond association until after the fact but You know mom has been trying to communicate at this point. So I think the concern precedes him But I'm not sure How it should have been done. So I think that was the sentiment those trying to be expressed Thank you Well, I'm sure there are no additional comments Okay, I have some other questions. Yeah, I'm gonna go Yeah, just for just for clarification to access the basement you have to go through Unit one is accurate or is there access directly to the basement? There is access directly to the common area after the basement there is okay and And all you're doing is you're opening up and you're This the the space that used to be these enclosed rooms and that's to allow and and you're The gas tanks are staying in the common area Is it moving at all? The only thing that's in them in my in my properties the gas meters So we are trying to move them into the common area first. We try to move them outside I'm still working with the national grid If the outside is that feasible we want more them to the common area. So The previous owner has built the two bedrooms in the basement was out Right, so you're just trying to allow for access to correct it. I remember they In illegally built to bed rooms. I'm just asking to Get approved for extended living space with no bedroom and Right and um, so shall I'm trying to correct the mistake that was made by the previous owner And who owns the so you so the basement it's all the three unit owners So in order for you to get a building permit you are required to have agreement with the other units To line you the work. Yeah, this is dedicated unit number one. We're not taking any common space This is probably must have planned everything's dedicated right so unit one, which is what you owned right Okay, it's not our common space. Yeah, it's okay. I mean it all depends on your condo board Paperwork, but okay, thanks No further questions. Okay, any other questions from the board They have a motion I Manager I'm gonna move forward with an approval There's second out that can mr. Stembridge Yes Mr. Valencia yes, mr. Turner yes, mr. Burleso Yes, miss we won yes, mr. Langan Yes Sherrod's yes, the motion carries good luck and I would encourage you to reach out to your to your Do the unit owners customers yeah, thank you all so much. We died The next three cases Through companions and companions camp that companion cases and the one after that have been deferred So that will take us to case be away 175 3888 with the address of 170 popular street If the applicant and the one there representable plan with their police plan to the board So this is Thomas tunic I'm a co-owner of this property together with gging jane zoo who's also on the call Uh a good day to the board and the Madam chair um, we are proposing no Slides or a change of the envelope of the Can you just stay on this picture please right now. Thank you very much. So what we are proposing is Several fold first of all You see this little house on the flat part of the Of the roof that is actually a staircase that goes all the way downstairs We want to actually eliminate that staircase because it is extremely steep and certainly not suitable for a three For a secondary means of the address What we want to do is we want to enclose the flat part so that nobody falls down from here And then have a staircase outside that is going over the garage into the um into the outside there as you can see on the right side Um also what we want to do is we want to erase the roof um the apartment that is proudly in that room is a in illegal apartment that is uh one thing and be So this is dated back to probably The 1970s at the very least maybe even before that And we want to put a box on top of this as you can see on the right side and Increase the living living area from the second floor apartment into the third floor Um that creates zoning variance from To have where the third floor part is somewhat too large for the current zoning requirements And I invite questions Thank you. Any questions from the board? You're not me upholding testimony Madam chair and members of the board for the record. My name is Jeremy Bemberley I service the community engaged in press list for the office when they put services for a razzle and bail The applicant has completed the community process was consistent of an abutus meaning for simulated onset Temperature and with two of others on attendance one voice important proposal Anywho office distance are concerned to erase following the abutus meeting no further community process was required And today now office does not receive dandy for the community feedback at this time Thank you for your time on the mess office of members services would like to defer to the board. They're just thank you Thank you Here, madam chair next we have a Jane Jane show I think this is the case that you won't speak on um I just the call on this house with the speaker and Thomas Kuhn. So yeah, um, I just in case someone asked asked the questions Yeah, no comment, you know, I'm out of California. I support Thank you Any other public comments? I'm sure they are not additional comments Okay, is there a motion? Mom should I make a motion if I'm broke? There a second back in Mr. Stonebridge Yeah Mr. Valencia Yes Mr. Turner. Yes Miss Berraza Yes Miss Weewell. Yes Mr. Langham Yes Chair votes yes the motion carries good luck Thank you very much and have a great day And chair since we passed the 1130 hour I will ask if there are any requests for withdrawals or deferrals From the 1130 time firm Yeah, so 62 L street Yes So this so that this request is for case BOA 157545 with the annuals of 62 L street Would you go ahead and explain with Yes Yes, I am as David Luciano good afternoon and chair members of the board. I am as David Luciano. I'm the owner of 62 L street in South Boston After our community process we revised our Our plans to accommodate some some requests from our neighbors There's one additional item. We are still small item that we're waiting on to complete our updated package to ISD So we're requesting a short deferral to um To submit that item and Have one more butters meeting Okay I don't know if 24th or March 10th. I will take this 24th. Please Okay, was that man motion Motion to the first case to February 24th Okay, now the second second This is time bridge Yes Mr. Valencia Yes Mr. Turner. Yes Mr. Betabraza Yes As we will yes Mr. Langham. Yes Chair votes yes the motion carries. See you then. Thank you There's no more requests for the Charles Or withdrawals of the trials from 1130 Then we will return to the lab We will return to the last case I need I need I'm sorry This person yeah, we need to please Please amuse the We're turning to the last case for 11 o'clock Let's get it for 11 o'clock which is case B08 171 9183 Skin with the address of 72 74 May 14th street or Tim Johnson approach You can take 58 58 mountain streets currently as they can land I need located in the Dash 5000 zone except district I need The minimum lot size in the zone except in the Zoning District 5000 we're at 3000 on 20 square feet The lot width and frontage is required is 40 feet right 39 F.A.R.I. Saagard My clients listen table figures have been in the volume this property I've been in the neighborhood for 30 years They own this vacant lot at 58 Mallet and also the budding property At 56 mallet which is a two Which is currently a two-family dwelling F-58 at the F-58 mallet We are proposing a two-net story two-family dwelling I'm sorry I'm very confused I'm sorry We are making a difference That's the same confusion And then if I could request that I need you to be removed from the panelists Thank you We're proposing a two-net story two-family dwelling And reconfiguring a consistent group of costs So Mr. Johnson just to confirm Are you are you presenting for 72 Mapleton because we heard Mallet Street So is there anyone here to present on Mapleton Street I don't see anyone Okay Okay, so we'll try to circle back to this And Mr. Stembridge can go to the next case Which is also not valid Okay, bad chair We will move on down to the red discussions scheduled for 1130 And the first case is case B-O-A 165 3647 With the address of 38 Fenway If the applicant and the other representative present Would they please explain this case to the board Yes Thank you Mr. Stembridge Good afternoon Madam Chair Members of the board attorney John Pogini Here on behalf of the owners and developers of this project Mark Irman and she Cron Also with us today is the team architect David Fried 38 Fenway the zoning is multi-family residential two A lot size to 3,000 square feet The proposal before you today is for the redevelopment of the building at 38 Fenway The existing building at 38 Fenway has been unoccupied for decades And has fallen into extreme disrepair Mark and she a long time residence with the back-day neighborhood And a determined to remediate the building and turn into a location That will only not only provide much needed additional housing to the city But a building they can manage and live within with for themselves They intend this to be an owner occupied building And for for themselves and also for their dealt children To do so they plan to change the use of the building to a five unit multi-family dwelling It's allowed by zoning and complete a full interior renovation along with the vertical Uh In rear additions and elevator will be installed along with rear decks and a private roof deck The building will be ADA accessible and three parking spaces will be provided The unit mix will be as follows unit one and the first floor is a studio of 492 square feet Unit two second floor is a two bed 1492 square feet Unit three is on the third floor. It's a two bed 1646 square feet Unit four is on the fourth floor that is a two bed 1631 square feet and unit five Which is the owner's unit is on both the fifth and sixth level and it's a one bed 3288 square foot building Our zone our unit our zoning violations are use Basement is a forbidden use in the zoning depth straight sub district FAR What's allowed is 4.0 we were at 4.25 And rear yard those are the only violations the minimum rear yard is 20 we're at 15 It should be noted that the rear yard of this Property does not about any neighboring properties It abuts a public alley to the rear of the you can see it on the screen right there it abuts a public alley to the rear of the property This proposal went to an extensive community process it started way back in September 24 The proposal has been through three of our meetings as well as the meeting with the and continued dialogue with fed and way civic Community input has resulted in multiple changes to the proposal over the past year At this point, I'd like to turn it over to David free to walk to the plans and we will be happy to answer any questions It's presentation. Thank you Thank you john. My name is David Fried and I'm an architect at June company Hello madam chair and members of the board If you could please go back one sheet Thank you. So just to take you quickly quickly through the plans Um as john said the existing building was a single family house or we're doing in addition to the rear and also a vertical addition So um on the on the alley level or the garden level We're going to have two garage parking spaces and then we'll have a studio unit that meets The code requirements for light and air actually it's a code requirements for light and air if we can go to the next sheet please and then For the next three floors we have flats that are laid out is Two bedroom two bath in the study They're very generously sized at 1429 square feet as john said and then I believe at 1646 for fours two and three If we can go back to the I keep going up to the next sheet a one two Thank you. Yeah, and so the unit stack There is an existing um Fire escape Fire Egress balcony from adjacent building which we will maintain and connect back to our building next floor please Same layout and then as we get up to um sheet a one four We have a very unique Layout for this unit based on the the owners particular Program as john said it's a very large one bedroom at over 32 hundred square feet The building will be Elevator accessed and and ADA accessible for the owner If you could please go up on your sheet please And then the following sheet and then we have a roof deck on a very top floor That will be accessible for The owner Then from code of the elevations so um the addition is Um The existing building is a sort of a cream brick building with a ronstone base We're cladding the addition in Cream color terracotta cladding To provide kind of a A visual separation from the existing brick and also highlight kind of contemporary layer Um In respecting the historical building to go to the next elevation please. Thank you. So the back will be Paneled with a light gray textured metal panels Which will also provide kind of a neutral tone in contrast to the existing brick And each of those units will have very large balconies So they all have open space next sheet please And then it's in the two the exposed side walls be clad in a um a patterned uh, fiver cement panel next sheet please And then if we go to the following sheet we have a rendering some renderings there Um, it won't be the addition would be visible from the sidewalk however it would be visible from the park On the adjacent side of the street next sheet please And that would be um um a sort of a two-scale rendering of our proposal And that wraps up my my presentation. Thank you very much Thank you Are there questions on the board? Yes, I respond the comments from local organizations they have concerns as this proposal is going to be For short term rentals in a set of housing Well, this is your vision for the cooperative. Well, this is uh, really developed Thank you for the questions of one's here. So um, Mark and she currently um live on beacon tree They're elderly Mark has a degenerative disease which is making it very difficult to live in a single family house on beacon street that is a very large home Um, but it's not 88 accessible as just as his medical condition deteriorates He needs to live in a building that has an elevated building and that's why you can see that you know, you have a A 32 hundred square foot unit with that's only a one bet and that will be the owners unit So there is no intent. We've been working with the district counselor On this as well, and I know there was some questions for the from I think primarily from the Family CDC However, they have no intent and will not I mean they're spending a real lot of money Reinvesting into this building. It's a very difficult bill the way it sits because of the construction will be More difficult obvious than most most projects There in tank is not to ever Rent this out is short term rentals or anything like that they are Not what's kind of people and it certainly doesn't Goed well for them investing all this money to do that Thank you. Thank you any other questions from the board Man's public testimony Madam chair and board members see gods with the office of neighborhood services Sappoken has completed the community process our office has hosted three of utter's meetings regarding this proposal The first and October 2024 second and December 2024 and the third on October 6, 2025 Abutters were universally opposed to the proposal at all these meetings Abutters felt that the design is not contextual to the area that the plans are not consistent with the use proposed Abutters were concerned that the property will actually be used for short term rentals The Fenway Civic Association is opposed to this application and has sent a letter to the board explaining their position And with that background our office deferred judgment to the board. Thank you As you could I just interrupt one second. I believe the family civic association what I email the chassis. They're taking no position on this project And I think that's probably the evil show The information that my office been provided is that they were opposed but I can double check on that for you Yeah, I can phone you an email but Thank you Okay, thank you next we have Christensen monelope please Good morning Madam chairman. This is the board Christian Somali Boston ground water trust and we have both chief hot letters from the applicant Thank you Thank you next we have Lily Suva Suva man. I'm sorry. No, that's okay. Suiderman Louis Suderman again with Councillor Durk and Sasha I'm going to read a letter. She submitted to the board really quickly It says dear chair dong and members of the board. Thank you for the opportunity to comment on this ending early for pester 38 the Fenway This property has been in poor condition for decades and is largely sat vacant since the 1980s Because of its long deterioration many many neighbors are eager to see the building restored and the possibility of reinvestment has generated considerable interest I'm not opposed to the project moving forward though. I do want to respectfully highlight a few concerns raised by neighborhood stakeholders Both the Fenway Civic Association and Fenway for have raised specific concerns about the variance requested SC is letters to the board notes objections regarding the scale of the proposed editions and emphasizes the importance of maintaining the historic character in the Fenway's built environment There are also questions about future use particularly with respect to short temperamentals and student-oriented leasing And the need for assurances that the property will remain the proponents residents I do acknowledge these concerns and believe they may not care for consideration at the same time I recognize that we are opportunity to restore long neglect Neglected property and return it to residential use I also want to note that the applicants who are currently constituents living in the back bay reached out to my office Streckly in the letter they explain that they purchase 38 the Fenway to accommodate a medical condition And the resulting need for a more accessible building they stated clearly that they have no interest in allowing short temperamentals and will prohibit Tenets from doing so their plan to read about the building in the five units serve fine O later with one unit for themselves and the remaining units intended for their children and long term tenants I also reviewed the planning department's memorandum on this proposal and I would like to request their rec The recommended parisals being included specifically They requested the applicant obtain review and approval of the plans by the Boston Auditor and to the commission do the site location within the band water Conservation overlay district at the plans be submitted to the planning department for further review with particular attention to design A vertical addition and maneuverability of the proposed parking spaces this building is special and we believe it requires special Consideration in the terms of design with these parisals added the counselor would like to be recorded as in non-opposition Thank you for your time and consideration Thank you And next we have this Stephen Farrell Good morning. Good morning. My name is Stephen Farrell. I'm the executive director of Fenway forward formerly Fenway CDC Fenway forward has participated in the public abouters meetings over the last year And has had several conversations with John Pogini the lawyer for the proponent multiple times over the same period as time As I have shared in each of these conversations the primary concern for Fenway forward as an immediate a butter and as a community membership based organization Has been the allowed use of the apartments Specifically because the significant upward pressure that short-term rentals and renting to undergraduate students have on local rents We ask that the proponent consider entering into a good neighbor agreement with us again on behalf of the community that prohibits these two rental categories Because we know good neighbor agreements have no official standing with the city of Boston Fenway forward engaged in conversations with the attorney for the for the proponent So as to identify a potential pathway specifically a written document with some level of accountability Related to the ventures of the units and ideally setting a standard for future projects in the Fenway During our participation at the abouter meetings in our role as a neighbor and membership based organization We have requested that our concerns and the concerns about the neighbors be addressed in an open and transparent manner I believe and am grateful that the process has been open and transparent In fact Fenway forward has shared a template of a good neighbor agreement previously used in another neighborhood with a proponent's lawyer And we remain in discussions about options to move forward Therefore because of the proponent's lawyer has said that the proponent continues to be open to this concept And even though the concept has not yet been executed Fenway forward it does not oppose this project and the hope that further conversations will yield a good neighbor agreement amenable to all parties. Thank you Thank you I'm going to check the additional comments Yes Mr. Goodyany Anything you want to have? I just this I mean this issue is it's not it's a non-issue It really is a non-issue these people are they live in the back bay in a very expansive house right now that they're selling The owner has Parkinson's disease he has to move into a house that is ADA accessible That's where it's coming from they have no intention of ever Renting this out as short-term. It's just an issue that was raised and it's how do you undo something that was raised when it wasn't your intent to do it So you know will continue to the process like I stated You know they had reached out to the councilor durkins office directly communicated that intent with them We'll continue to work with Steve is a very nice guy and you know as well as assault the The civic so Fenway civic and go forward from there, but you know again relying on the BPA recommendation states It's consistent with all the other developments and obviously it's people don't like the design It has to go to a BPA designer to do anyway, so most times designs changes change. Excuse me. Thank you. Thanks for the opportunity Okay, any other questions from the board? May I have a motion Mamma sharae make a motion of approval with boss and in-laws to work commission review to do a project location within the The jico district and also that the project undergoes planning department review with attention to the design of the vertical addition And to improve parking configuration Considering the reduction of parking spaces if needed Mr. Semanelli or any signed off on jacuzard, but that's you know, we can I think they just got mixed up in the When they when it was for your paperwork. Yes. Yeah, that's that's okay. Is there a second again? Mr. Stembridge Yes Mr. Lensia. Yes Miss Turner. Yes, it's better browser Yes, thank you as we will yes Mr. Langham. Yes Chair votes. Yes, the motion carries Thank you everybody. Have a great Christmas. Enjoy your holidays. Thank you Madam chair, I'm going to return to the last case For La Naya, I believe We attend this And that that this is for case B.O.A. 171 9183 With the address of 72 to 74 May, Bolton Street It's the applicant and or the representative president or they please explain to the world Madam chair, I don't see anybody for this project Okay, one second. I think actually There is one person now Agimar is you can a hello. Hi Hello, yes, yes, are you here for maple country? Hello, can you hear us? Hotel I got a walkie for you the coals are space give me one second Hello Hey, are you here for maple country? I forgot Sir, are you here for maple to the street? Oh, okay. No, I am sorry. I wasn't mute. I'm so sorry Seven to make the same thing. Can you just state your name and address for the record and please proceed? Yes, my name is Agi Jisuzza and the address is 72 May, Bolton Street. I'm the cojena contractor representing the owner Okay, and what are you proposing? Well, this is a two-family home A legal two-family home with a illegal third-fraud youth on a third-fraud Uh Right now they have a third-fraud youth and that's already there is this thing she say she bought like this I'm not sure by any way what we try to do here is change the used Of the building going from a two-family home to a three-family home That's all Okay, so the units already there and no additional work is being done No, nothing's been done. It's already dead. Okay Questions from the board Hearing done is there public testimony? Madam Chair and Board members see Johnson with the Office of Neighborhood Services. This applicant has completed the community process Our office hosted an abouters meeting on June 11th at which no concerns were raised The applicant met with the Brighton Austin Improvement Association which shows to abstain on taking a position regarding this application With that background our office deferred judgment to the board. Thank you Madam Chair they have no additional comments Okay, would that be a motion Motion of approval is there second? but Mr. Stammering Yes, Mr. Valencia. Yes Yes Yes Is better browser yes Miss we will yes Mr. Lano You're on mute Mr. Lano Yes, thank you. Yeah, that's okay. Chair votes. Yes, the most motion carries good luck Thank you very much. You have a great day everyone With that we go to the last scheduled case for From the redisession to about 30 This is case me away 169 63 once the address of 58 Maui Street If the applicant and the representative are present will they please point the board Uh, thank you. Thank you. Mr. Rich Tim Johnson the project architect Good morning Madam Chair members of the board Currently 58 Maui Street is a vacant lot with the curb cut. It's located in the 2F-5,000 zoning sub district We are proposing a 2.5 story to family dwelling The long size minimum is 5,000. We are at 3,120 square feet The minimum lot width in frontage is 40 feet. We are at 39 feet The usable open space 750 square foot per dwelling unit we're at 636 square foot per dwelling unit And the FAR max is 0.5 We're at 0.7 Lastly the yards the front yard requirement is 15 feet where at 6 feet to align with the other buildings on the street and the side yard Minimum is 10 feet where at 6 feet my clients listen Dave Siggers Have been in this neighborhood for over 30 years. They also own the abutting property To the left which is 56-malady to family And on the vacant lot we're proposing a 2.5 story to family dwelling We're also proposing to relocate the existing curb cut off the lot To provide a share driveway between the existing 2F-56 mallet and the proposed 2F-58 mallet street The new units at 58 mallet street will be two better units Proximum 1100 square feet and each will have a rear deck For outside enjoyment We are also as I mentioned proposing a share driveway between the two buildings to provide Two off street parking spaces for each Two family building There are also a number of trees on the site and We work With a director butter to make sure any trees that we did take down we would replant them So currently we're proposing to take down three trees, but we will replant we will be planting three trees to replace those trees On both 58 between 58 and 56 mallet street This doesn't confirm the stretch energy code which is 20% margin-fishing than current code This will be an electric building for heating cooling and cooking And we do follow the dark sky initiative all down my lights will be chilled and downlit Finally, we did receive support of the director butter's neighbors and the St. Mark's Civic Association And that's my brief presentation out chair Thank you one of the recommendations from the planning department mentioned Moving a curb cut to preserve an existing tree is that Something that you would be open to I yes, there is and if we go to the site plan which is Most of the beginning of the drawing set Yes, right there You can see where the proposed infidrive white is in the existing street tree as shown We feel that we can provide the required cubic feet of soil beneath the sidewalk for a good healthy tree to grow and provide the real-cated easement that we relocated a curb cut between the two buildings we can submit a surveyed plot plan showing the curb cut the existing tree location and required tree well and subsoil condition below Thank you other questions from the board Yes, I'm looking at the site plan and I see that the big area of the The lot is going to be covered by asphalt to accommodate four cars Could you be willing to produce the parking count to maybe one parking per unit To so you can have more open space Well the requirement for This only subdued for parking is one space per dwelling unit So We would encourage owning violation if we began removing the number of cars from the site The open space required is 750 per dwelling unit We're at 636 Open square feet open space per dwelling unit We're also providing rear decks For the existing for the proposed existing does have rear decks And um they also with the trees We feel that We're providing the same number of trees that are on the site now So There is a balance there's a tug of war between parking on parking between the city In the neighborhood we feel that these parking spaces are needed And um there is an existing curb cut that we're relocating But I actually think yeah, I think you actually did a good job like consulting the aisle But perhaps a good balance would be to Provide more of a permeable materials so you don't have imperious Um, you know coverage so I think you can do it through materials That's a good point uh miss brato We do I Do use a An interlocking uh permeable paper a lot in the city and um they work quite well Okay, great. Thank you When we apologize for the thing Okay, I'm not sure if so if you know in s is providing public testimony If not we can move forward with the city councillors offices We have Anthony Ligilarly please You see Thank you good afternoon each unit good afternoon Madam chair members of the board Anthony Jolardi from city council earned movies office The council would like to go on record and support of the application. Thank you Thank you. Thank you next we have a liandrimas Well, I'm not a chair members of board and they're remiss for council for sales office I just like going records for us proposal. Thank you. Thank you Yeah Without a manager there are no additional comments Yeah, would that may have motion Ben chair I'd like to perform a motion of approval with the proviso that the project um Wants with permeable Probably material for the driveway There's second Exactly Mr. Stembridge Yeah Mr. Valencia Yes Mr. Turner yes Miss Betta Brazza yeah Is we well yes mr. Lino's yes Chair votes yes the motion carries good luck. Thank you. Thank you madam chair and Mary Christmas Anyway All right, so for those who we won't see next week happy holidays and Happy holidays Stop