 you you you you Mr. Blancia Mr. Langen Mr. Brasa Mr. Brasa Mr. Vueh Mr. Brueh Mr. Bucahal Mr. Stembridge Thank you Madam Chair Before we start off with the hearing scheduled 1 p.m. We'll ask if there are any requests for deferrals or withdrawals for this talk. Not hearing or seeing anything. But the first case we have is case B.O.A. 152-2495 with the address of 3.01 street. Excuse me? If the applicant and or their representative is present, they would explain to the board please. If there is no unavailable at this point, at this time for this case, then we'll move on and come back to it at the end of the presentation. The case is scheduled for this time frame. So with that, go through case B.O.A. 152-7656 with the address of 54 Seamond Road. It's the applicant and it was ever present. So it's point the case. Yes, good afternoon. This is Timothy Burke. I'm the architect for the project. I have a business address of 142 Berkeley Street. And the owner, Willie Garcia, is also here on the call. And thank you very much for this opportunity to present the project. This property, as you're seeing on the screen, has a very unusual size, a small size, an unusual shape to the lot. And that is part of the reason that it's generated this violation on FAR, which is the zoning relief we are seeking. About a year ago, a little more than a year ago, we were afforded the board with the same property to seek permission to enclose the first floor, which is where the owner lives, the rear porch to enclose that for additional living space. And that you see this here in the plans that were approved. As things progressed and things came to people's minds, they realized that the porches upstairs were not being used, and that they would benefit from some additional space to be enclosed on the second and third floor, similar to the first floor. And each porch is approximately 160 square feet. But this additional living space would be very valuable to the occupants who live on the second and third floor. And we're seeking that permission today. The exterior would be treated the same as we had treated the first floor. The elevations show that it's mostly glass, so it's more like a sunroom space. It's great for plants and additional living space. The floor floor has the first floor has two bedrooms and a bath and the second and third floor each have three bedrooms and one bath. And the next drawing does show the proposed elevation so that on the upper right is the glass for the new sun porches. So I'd be happy to answer any questions that you may have. Excellent. Thank you. Just to confirm again, there's no extension of the current footprint. It's just enclosing the porches correct? That is correct. Yes. Thank you. Questions from the board? We're in none. I'll put up with testimony. Yes. Madam Chair, members of the board. Conor anyone with the mayors off to neighborhood services. This time the mayors off. Click to defer to the judgment of this board. Oh, and I'm so soon to butter's meeting that was slightly attended. We did hear though from St. Mark's civic association, which asserts that they have not received a presentation on this proposal. With that, I'll defer to the board at this time. Thank you. Thank you. Do have a way to stand here calling the start rate. You're looking to get testimony to unmute yourself. Hello, can you give me? Yes, sir. Hello, can you? Hello? Yes, sir. Please proceed. We can hear you. Madam Chair, members of the board. I'm in the smite department. I'm personally sent not to the association. And this, of course, has not come to the civic association. So I'd like to ask for a deferred regarding the process. Thank you. Thank you. No additional questions. I did offer to appear before St. Mark's and that gentleman was also at the butters hearing that we had that day. So I'm not sure if there was some miscommunication. We certainly always try to work with the community groups. Thank you, Mr. Brook. Any other questions from the board? If not, may I have a motion? Madam Chair, I'll put forward a motion. I'll approve. May I have a second? Okay. Mr. Scumbridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes, ma'am. Is that a browser? Yes. Yes. This will go. Yes. This will go. Yes. Chair also votes. Yes. Motion carries. Thank you very much. Next, we have case B o a 1, 5, 3, 7, 9, 2, 5 with the address of 22 Freeman Street is the out of the camp. The end or their representative to explain to the board. Thank you. Just want to introduce myself. This is HIPQ. My co-presenter, which is Jennifer. And the model, JS and ZBL members. I'm the general manager for BT Group, which owned the 22 Freeman. Just a little bit about the histories of 22 Freeman. We own sit for the last about 12 years is Big and Land. And going back to the early 80s, this particular two family house, Bowen to Down, very next to the tea. And I believe the city back then 40 years ago was spending money to demolish the house just to make it safe. Since the last 40 years, the property has been vacant very next to the tea. And up until now, we would like to propose 14 new construction studios to house individual. Basically, these are as really for working individual members of the city, Boston, particularly just here. And the housing needed much needed within the city. And I'm the local developer. All my life in the last about 30 years is all working in social services and then profit and CDC and develop quite a few projects in the just a few corner area. So we would committed as IDP 13% to units of the 14 units, 70% area medium income. And the process we went through the field is going to civic. The first meeting was able to fifth 2022. About particular meeting, which is present the projects and take questions concerns from the community meetings. And then the mayor office housed the better meeting on March 27, 2023, which is this year. It's about doesn't people are tending to and to be honest, the most contentious issues is really is the pocket situation. And obviously the site is little bit over 3000 square foot. It's really a couple of steps away from the fuels called a t station. There's no other properties would be as closed as this possible right next to a red line t station. So if we are going to provide any pocket space for the properties, we wouldn't be able to do. You know, one or two, therefore it is a big sense for the pop is to do any pocket spaces for the properties or for tenants. It is a rental properties and then are able to fill up the second meeting with a few corner civic. There are some of others came forward and the general meetings they consents to support the project. So here we are today. And Jennifer Har is our agitax. She will take it over for me. Thank you. Hello Madam Chair and members of the board. My name is Jennifer Harford. You are the lecturer in my office located at 53 H. Harford Street in Dorchester. I'll be presenting as the architect of the project at 23 Freemans Street today. The project site if you would go to the first page, please. Thank you. The project site is directly in front of fields corner red line P stop. This site is a vacant lot approximately 40 feet by 80 feet. One important site feature we think of the page two is that the lot is elevated seven feet from the sidewalk. Due to its proximity to the T station, we are proposing a transit oriented development on the site. There's 14 studio units, there are card parking, 15 bike parking and shared common spaces and amenities as well as outdoor space. Please go to page three. This diagram shows that the basement level is outside walk grade and will host the bike parking as well as accessory programs. The first floor is on the grade level of the lot and is about nine feet higher from the sidewalk level. You will walk up the other stairs and take the accessible left. Next page please. In this diagram, it shows how the units will be laid out on levels two and four. There are total 14 studio units roughly 396 square feet per unit. Next page please. This is the civil site drawing. There will be some sidewalk improvements to the site as well as the landscape features such as brickpapers for the bike path entry. There is an existing five to eight feet of a city land to the left of the property that's also on the same grade level as the elevated lot. We hope to do some upgrades to this in terms of landscaping so that it can be used by the units. There is also going to be existing sidewalk and city fixtures upgraded for the handicap access. As well as there is an existing retaining wall that separates the elevated lot to the sidewalk and that will be upgraded and beautified. Next page please. This is the site proposed site plan. There are here the variances we are seeking for. Our street parking required is one and a half per unit. We are proposing zero. The multi-family is forbidden use in the 3 FD 3000 zone. The traffic visibility across the corner. The additional lot area is insufficient. The FAR allowed is 1.3. We are proposing 2.56. The height allowed is 3 stories. We are proposing 5 stories. Usable open space is insufficient. The side yard is insufficient required is 5 feet. We are proposing 3 feet on one side and 4 feet on the other. The very yard is insufficient. The required is 15 feet and proposed is 5 feet 11 meters. Please go to the next page. Thank you. Because the basement is at street level, it will be highly accessible by parking. The area of common services for the units, including 88 left, laundry, trash recycling, mailboxes, even a bike repair station. On the first floor, the host 2 studio units that are group one accessible allowed for large common lounging outdoor deck. Next page please. The typical floor hosts 4 units. Each unit is just under 400 square feet. Each unit is designed with a bathroom, kitchen, dining, living bed area storage closet in mechanical space. Next page please. The building has 5 levels, but because of the great design and the mansar roof design, we were able to break down that scale and make it feel like it fits compactually with its neighbors and it's also welcoming to the pedestrians. The facade style is consistent with New England's style homes in Dorchester with some modern patches. And the materials include standing-seeing metal roof, hardy-clack sighting, as well as fresh balconies. Next page. And next page. Thank you. So here's just a close-up detail of how you would enter the site from the sidewalk and how you would enter straight into the bike parking area. And then there's also another area where you can access into the handicap left and that will take you directly to the first floor. That's the end of my presentation. Thank you. Questions from the board? The fence is facing the station. That's NPT property correct. So do you have? Yes. Yes. Okay. And it seems like from this rendering, you're not going to do any plantings to cover that. Or are you actually actually they are very decent as today. They are like upper-class. Fencing and the bottom half is really concrete. It's totally 100% controlled by the META. Yeah. And also a minor correction to Jennifer. The five. She was talking about is not controlled by city of Boston. But it's really accessed by the META, which we operate to, you know, careful and perhaps and careful, physically. Yes. Yes. I guess you're on the second story and you're looking at the window. I would like to understand how tall is that kind of fence barrier to those windows. How tall is it from the podium, you know, level that you're showing? I think it's about six foot up. Six foot up. So all the units all along that floor really don't have a view. So I would just encourage that you would have just, you know, a lot of landscaping. Absolutely. Okay. I don't have one other question is the height. It seems like you're meeting the minimum bar, which is 40 feet. You're just going up five story, but you are meeting a height for zoning. Yes. That is correct. Okay. I don't have any further questions. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? You're in none. Okay. Public testimony. Good afternoon. Madam Chair and members of the board, actually, from the office and neighborhood services. Twenty-two, although the city of Austin did hold an emergency meeting for twenty-two, Freeman Street back in March of this year. The project was presented to the public when it's civic once last year and once is here as well in April. I'm in conclusion. We had a so far letter from the civic group, but that we took by the judgment of this board. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, I have no questions. Any other questions from the board? You're in none. I have a motion. Madam Chair, I think the destiny feels right. I think you don't really need any parking as right exotherrain station. The property can use development on that corner. I'm going to go forward with motion approval. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Langel. Yes. Mr. Betaparaza. Yes. Ms. We will. Yes. Ms. Mukal. Yes. Ms. Mukal. Yes. Thank you. Mr. Cherasa, about the motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. I want to put some note. I haven't seen the amount. I'm chance for the last 20 years as well. I know. How are you doing? Good. Thank you so much. Thank you, everyone. Next, we have case viewing. 153-8261. With the address of 215-217-419-Avendom. I'll leave a trace. Val with us earlier. He's still here. Yes, I am, Mr. Stembridge. So, a good afternoon Madam Chair and members of the board. A 20-dark small. I'm a business dress up 51 doves of road. Today we're here seeking the change to legal occupancy of the building from offices and auto parts sales to a restaurant with takeout and live at the table. The zoning sub district here is the Harvard Avenue Community Commercial District. And under Article 51, the restaurant uses for bidding use. Live at the table is a forbidden use and we're seeking a conditional use permit for the restaurant on the first floor. Again, it's going to be an Asian cuisine with karaoke rooms. So, if you're looking at the second floor and the ground floor plan to have breakout rooms, there is different sizes depending upon the size of a party that's leasing the space to do karaoke. That's where the live entertainment comes in. And again, it would be a fine Asian diet and cuisine restaurant. I'll stop there having any questions. Has any questions about the board may have. Thank you. What are the hours that you're seeking? We are seeking and we will be seeking at 1 a.m. closing time. Questions from the board? They're here and none. I'll take public testimony. Mr. Newman, Mr. Mendoza. Mr. Mendoza. Frank should be on in a second. The apologies Madam Chair, members of the board, Frank Mendoza here, also invited the ASEAN. Has some technical difficulties there. We did host some of our meetings for this project. It was lightly attended. The applicant was able to address every concern or question that attendees had. The All-Sensive Association should have sent in a letter to board this morning earlier. With that said, I'm just going to ask Mr. Mendoza, but I think we got your just. Madam Chair, members of the board, Paul Solven, City Council of Lodge, Michael Flare, Victoria, and support. Thank you. Any other raised hands, Jessica? Sorry, now I have no additional raised hands. Thank you. Okay. May I have a motion? No, Paul Solven, I wish I had a approval. Is there a second? Second. I'm rich. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes, ma'am. Thank you. Ms. Betapraza. Yes. Ms. B. Will. Yes. Ms. McAllen. Yes. Chair, also those, yes, motion carries. Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Madam Chair, members of the board, have a good day. You too. Are we starting going back to the three-hamlet? It certainly tries to. Okay, let's try. So again, we'll turn it through case B-O-A, 152, 2495, with the address of three-hamlet street. Is anyone, is applicant, or any one, representative? President Schultz-Plan? Okay. I've had a good time. Hello? Yes. Yes, I'm the owner of the three-hamlet street, but my representative, Judith, Judith, she's trying to connect with the other, I don't know what happened. But we just trying to make the basement available with the first floor. Do you want to present yourself? I don't know, because she is there, but she can connect. I don't know what happened. What's her name? Is she on here now? What? She had to show me that. She was at the beginning. She was trying to connect with the other. What's her name? Judy. Julie? What's it? Julie. Let me say. If you want to walk through it. Yeah, Jay. Oh, I don't know. Jay, send the phone. Just say Jay, send the phone. Just send it down to the phone. Okay. Okay. It's gonna be hard. Is it Julie? Julie, cut? Yeah, you're there, cut. Okay, I see you want. I'll go ahead. You're, you're on me today. Can you hear me? Yes. Yes, we can. Sorry. Sorry. Not. You're fine. Can you introduce yourself? And when you're ready, just walk us through the bubble. Yes. My name is Julie Morita. I'm the contractor from three hamlet. I'm revealing myself. Are you guys? We couldn't hear you if you were speaking a minute ago. So please, yeah, please continue. Okay. Can you hear me now? Yes. Yes. Yeah, we are looking for relief because this is a three family unit. And the family is looking to get extra, liable space for the family to get together in the basement. And we just asked him for doing interior renovation in the basement for, to add extra liable space for the first floor. Questions from the board? What's your, what's your total ceiling height in the basement? 76. Okay. This is a three family? Yes. Perhaps the basement? Um, I'm really worried. I'm just wondering, what type of backshippings will be going on coming up into the basement? Just like a family room, like a game room. And so the parents, they have kids that they can play in the basement while they do any office activities. They can get together and maybe watch some movies and have more space to play around because there's not enough space right now in their house. Okay. So there'll be no living space in the basement, a bedroom or anything like that. No. Okay. Thank you. You're welcome. Any other questions from the board? Yeah, I got one quick question. What is this going to be like one big room? Yes. No bedrooms and nothing? No. Okay. Okay. Where are you in public testimony? Mr. Newman, are you? I'm not to speak or is the South Boston Lees on? Okay. No raised hands, Jessica? No man. No raised hands at the moment. Thank you. Okay. Would that have a motion? My name's Sherry. We'd like to put forward a motion for that role. May I have a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Lannam. Yes. Mr. Betapurasa. Yes. Ms. Wiewov. Yes. Ms. Mukahar. Yes. Sherry also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. All right. With that, I think thank you everyone and welcome to your party. Thank you. Mr. Haring, I hope it was okay and we'll see some of you next hearing. Week. All right. Thank you.