 Okay. Good evening. The city of Boston zoning board. Year in 2026 is now in session. The hearing is being conducted in accordance with the applicable provisions of the open meeting law, including the updated provisions enacted by the legend. The new law allows the board to continue its practice of holding virtual hearings through June 27th. This hearing of the board is being held remotely via the zoom webinar event platform. This hearing is also being recorded. In order to ensure this hearing of the board is open to the public, members of the public may access this hearing through telephone and video conferencing. The information for connecting to this hearing is listed on today's hearing agenda, which is posted on the public notices page of the city's website, Austin.gov. Members of the public will enter the virtual hearing as attendees, which means you will not see yourself on the screen and you will be muted throughout unless administratively unmuted when asked to comment. Board members applicants and their attorneys or representatives will participate in the he will appear alongside the presentation materials when speaking. Panelists are strongly encouraged to keep video on while presenting to the board. As with our in person meetings, comments and support will be followed by comments in opposition. The order of comments is as follows. Selected officials and members of the public. The chair may limit the number of people called upon to offer comment and the time for commenting as time constraints require. For that reason, the board prefers to hear from members of the public who are most impacted by a project that is those individuals who live closest to the project. Next slide. If you wish to comment on appeal, please click the raise hand button along the bottom of your screen in the zoom webinar platform. Click it again and your hand should go down. When the host sees your hand, you will receive a request to unmute yourself. Select yes and you should be able to talk if you. You are connected by telephone star nine to raise and lower your hand. You must press star six to unmute yourself after you receive the request from the host. Those called the pound to comment will be asked to state their name and address first and then can provide their comment. Next slide. In the interest of time and to ensure that you have enough time to do so, please. Raise your to the record do not raise your hand before the relevant address is called. Or the meeting host will not know to call on you at the appropriate. We ask that you keep your comments brief and all public testimony will be limited to 90 seconds. Mr. Stembridge. Good evening, Madam Chair. Good evening, Mr. Powell. Good evening, Madam Chair. Good evening, floor is yours, Mr. Stembridge. Thank you, Madam Chair. I'm going to begin this evening sharing schedule for 5pm. First we have case B O A 173 3276 with the address of 29 L street. It's the applicant and what they represent about present. Will they please explain to the board? Good evening, everybody. My name is Timothy Shan. I am the architect for the project. I'm going to start with the first one. What this is is a two family wood frame. Two and a half story structure. It's two units. The first unit is on the ground floor. My clients Tony and Natalie live on the second floor and the attic. And what they would like to do is add a front dorm or a back dormer and a deck. And they have a nice walk out from the attic. So because we're altering the roof profile on Charlestown, which is a restricted roof district, we have to come to the ZBA. And we also have a side setback violation because our dolmar penetrates the side setback by six inches. We're looking for a two foot offset. And that's a zero lot setback. Existing, you know, the existing I've walked you through it, you know, that attic now has two small bed, three small bedrooms and a den, no bathroom. And by adding these dormers, it would allow us to add two, you know, two good, but bedrooms with windows and master bedroom and a closet in the front. A master bath in the middle, a reasonably sized bedroom three and another bathroom. So the house would end up being three, but three bedrooms, three baths. The design, you know, we've designed the building to fit within the neighborhood. And we've utilized the plan Charlestown design for the front dolmar, which we call an antucket, dolmar, we've done several of them. I've got some pictures. Nearby. And that's basically the design. We've had a neighborhood meeting and we've worked with our immediate neighbors to the, when looking from Elm Street to the left, I believe it's 33. And you know, they had some shadowing concerns and we put together a shadow study to show it, you know, these two dormers don't really add much shadow because there's not much to them. They're only up about six or seven feet, you know, if you look at the side profile angle. And there was some concerns about the roof deck. In my experience, I live in town, you know, these when we do the metal railings, there's there only, you know, you're half an inch thick the bar so they just don't leave much shadow. And the reason we're doing the roof deck is, although there is a, you know, for Charlestown anyways, there's a decently sized backyard. It's awkward for my clients to get to because it's, it's basically two and a half sets of stairs stairs down and it's, you know, it's basically, it opens up to the first floor, and it's our idea was to give, you know, 340 square foot roof deck. So that's their open space. And with that, I'll leave it to questions. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Hearing none, may I have public testimony? Madam Chair and members, Ziggy Johnson with the Office of Neighborhood Services. This applicant has completed the community process. Our office hosted in a butter's meeting on February 18th at which in a butter had some concerns about shadows, some questions about the proposal. Our office received no further comments are understanding is they've worked with that a butter our office to first judgment to the board. Thank you. Any questions from the board? May I have a motion? I'd like to put a motion to approve with a proviso to submit drawings to the Boston Planning Department for review and approval. Is there a second? Yes. Yes. Mr. Bernal. Yes. Chair votes, yes, the motion carries. Thank you everybody. Thank you. of 661 East Broadway. It's the applicant and what they represent the president of the police in plain in case of bored. Do you see anyone, Jesus, for this case? You hear me? We can. Are you the applicant? Yes. Great. Can you state your name and address for the record and proceed? My name is Elizabeth Vu and it addresses 661 East Broadway South Boston. We just need you to tell us what you're proposing. Okay, so I own a small business in South Boston. I offer beauty services as well as injectables and some laser treatments and other skincare treatments as well. I am looking to add in body art to bring it in artists and hopefully bring in a permanent makeup artist as well. I've been in business here for 12 years. I've been on the same street for 18. So just always looking for different ways to bring in more treatments and services for the community. Thank you. And questions from the board? Hearing none, ma'am. Madam Chair and members, Ziggy Johnson with the Office of the Service Services. This applicant has completed the community process. Our office oversees the distribution of an informational flyer to all of butters and a 300-foot radius. We've decided no comments to our office. Gate of Heaven neighborhood association. I think there's no position on this application. That back on our office to first judgment to the board. Thank you. Thank you. My name is Chuck. There are no additional comments. Okay. May I have a motion? Motion to approve. So now second. There you go. Okay. Thank you. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Brun. Yes. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. The motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Next we have case BOA 179 2077 with the address of 658 East Fist Street. If the applicants endure the representative of the present, would they please explain to the board? Yes. Thank you, Mr. Stembridge. Madam Chair, members of the board, Attorney Ryan Spitz with Adams and Marancy, business address of 168 East Street, First floor, South Boston. Joining me today is the owner, Sean McClaury and the project architect Tim Shean. This proposal seeks to change the occupancy from a single family dwelling to a two family dwelling, maintaining the footprint of the building, providing interior layout changes, and a rear deck with metal spiral staircase for a secondary means of egress. Proposal is closely aligned with the cities by right conversion of internal spaces to accessory dwelling units. Proposal also falls with an MFR sub district, which allows for this type of use. Unit one will be approximately 1,420 square feet located on the first floor in the basement, consisting of a three bedroom, three bath kitchen dining room and living room. Not to mention that the basement is also a full walk out in the rear yard. Unit two will be approximately 1,302 square feet, located on the second floor and third floor, consisting of a three bedroom, three bath kitchen dining and living room as well. We have violations for a lot area and additional lot area. The lot size is 1,800 square feet and the code requires 2,000 square feet for the first unit and then an additional 1,000 square feet for any unit after that. Despite the lot size being a pre-existing condition, this proposal is aligned with other parcels supporting a two family residential use in the neighborhood. We also have an off-street parking violation requirement in the sub district as a 1.5 parking space per new unit of housing and our proposal doesn't include any parking but is aligned with its surroundings. In concluding, the proposal meets the city of Boston's housing and development goals and our contextual with the surrounding neighborhood fabric. At this point, Madam Chair, I'm going to turn it over to you for any questions or comments. Thank you. Are there any questions from the board? Just trying to understand any exterior work or just essentially the conversion. Yes, so there's minor exterior work which consists of the rear deck in the spiral staircase leading down to the ground level for a secondary means of egress. And that's it, right? Correct. You mentioned that you had mentioned ADU. Is this the ADU or not? No, so the difference, the biggest difference is one. There is a little bit of exterior renovation in here. However, it is investor-owned property. It is not owned or occupied. If it was owned or occupied, we would be able to go through that route of the additional dwelling unit policy. Thank you, sorry. Okay, with that, Madam Public testimony. Madam Chair and members, see you also at the Office of Neighborhood Services. The SAPPLECAN has completed the community process. Our office hosted in a butters meeting on December 1st of 2025, which one supporting a butter was in attendance. The City Point Neighborhood Association is supporting this application and our office is aware of four letters of support that have been sent to the board from a butters. That background judgment is deferred to the board. Thank you. Thank you, next. We have Ashley from Consular Flynn. Hi, my name is Ashley from Councilor Flynn's office. Councilor Flynn will like to go on record and support due to a good community process with neighbors and the City Point Neighborhood Association. Thank you. Madam Chair, there are no additional funds to raise at the moment. Thank you. Okay, with that, I may have motion. Motion to approve. There's second. Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Bernal. Yes. Chair vote, yes, the motion carries the book. Thank you. Please. Next, we have case B O A 180, 0 to 10. The address of 535 to 545, double street. It's the applicant and all their representative of present. Will they please point the case to the board? President Vargas Düsselvera representing 543, double street. At the moment, the, it's just a store that we're trying to get opened with a bakery. The violations are very light. It's because of the use, changing from commercial use to a bakery. The building is, there's no work to be done to X-theorya. We ask that if there's a way to hold the proviso, so it doesn't take much time from the BPDA. There's no work to be done in X-theorya. Take any questions. The owners, Jose and his wife, is on board. If they like to say something, if not, I'll take questions. Thank you. Are there any questions from the board? Hearing none, may I have public testimony? Madam Chair and members of the board for the record, my name is Jeremy Bembery. I'm the Roxbury Community Engagement Specialist for the Office of Neighborhood Services. The applicant has completed the community process, facilitated on December 18th with one guest in attendance. No questions or concerns were raised. Next, the proponent presented a deadly square neighborhood initiative where they voted in support of the proposal and offered to run the support letter. Today, our office has not received that letter of support, but it was mentioned that they would do so. Thank you for your time and the members of the Neighborhood Services would like to defer to the board for here, Judge. Thank you. Madam Chair, there are no additional comments. Okay, will that be our motion? Motion to approve. There's second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Yes. Mr. Bernal. Yes. Share your votes, Harry's the book. Next, we have case B-O-A-102841. The address is 95 Byron Street. If the applicant and or their representative present, will they please explain? Yes, hello. Can you hear me? Yes, we can hear you. Yes, I'm Savas, Gianna Smiti's. I'm the owner. Thank you for the opportunity to speak. We had a neighborhood meeting on December 17th. There were, for my memory, two or three, you know, neighbors that were there and there were in support of it, of what I'm trying to do, which is adding increased living space in the attic of the building of the house. And there was a zoning committee council meeting. I believe it was on January 21. Again, there were some neighbors at that meeting. They weren't supportive of it. And from my memory, there is an approval from the J.P. Zoning Council committee. That was headed by Mr. Barron. And so I'm looking to increase the living space in the attic. Thank you. So can you confirm you're not increasing the unit numbers? No. So you're just increasing living space. Okay. Other questions from the board? Hearing none, may I have public testimony? Madam Chair and members of the board for the record, my name is Jeremy Bemberry. I'm the Jamaica Police and Community Engagement Specialist for the Office of Neighborhood Services. The applicant has completed the community process, which consists of an abutters meeting facilitated on December 17th, excuse me, 17th, with three abutters and attendance and full support of the proposal. Next, the proponent presented the Jamaica Plain Neighborhood Council zoning where they voted to approve the proposal. Thank you for your time and the mayor's office of Neighborhood Services. We'd like to defer to the board for the general. Thank you. Madam Chair, there are no additional comments. Have a motion? Madam Chair, motion to approve. There are a second. Second. Second. Dambridge. Yes. Yes. Yes. Chair votes. Yes, the motion carries. Good luck, sir. Thank you. Thank you, everyone, for your time. Next, excuse me. Next, we have case B.O.A. 172-5252, with the address of 130 Dana Avenue. It's the applicant and do a representative of present. Would they please explain to the board? My name is Leban Manuilin and I work on this renovation of the design. So nothing has been drastic with a big change of this. This is the two dwelling house. So the task was the owners they wanted to add something on the second floor, making that the renovation of the kitchen and making sure that the modification what they do in the second floor is not going to be something that's going to be touched the exterior walls. So we work on the inside of this renovation. No setback violation. Third floor that was about the attic, which is a half story. The attic was living space but the thing is that was so tight and the walls that were just revisited made it even a little bit higher, not exceedingly the requirements of the rich hide. I kept it as much as I could, making comfortable, minimum comfort in that attic zone, just making sure that the attic is going to be a livable space, like a loft area with these half-eye-brow open windows, which is there just that windows, escape windows, in any case because there are the bedrooms. And my understanding this, the owner, Maria, she wanted to have this her privacy, in other words, having a opportunity to live in a second floor, and the kids are going to live in a loft area. So I did for my back. Same question. Just confirming you're not changing unit count. These are just expanding existing units. Yes. Okay. Questions from the board? Hearing none, ma'am, public testimony. Madam Chair and members of the board for the record, my name is Jeremy Bembery and the Hyde Park Community Engagement Specialist for the Office of Neighborhood Services. The applicant has completed the community process, which consisted of an about his meeting facilitated on December 10th with one director, Butter, who lives in the property. The first floor resident was very supportive with one inquiry of what may happen to them at that time. The component was very happy to assure he doesn't have to move. They love him. He's been with them for a while. Next, the proponent presented to West Faremont, Hill Pacific Association, where they voted in the support of the proposal. Thank you for your time and the members of the member of the service, who selected the board for the director. Thank you, Chair. Sorry, ma'am, Chair, there are no additional comments. You think that may have a motion? I'd like to make a motion to approve. Chair, move. Chair, second. Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Burnell. Yes. Chair votes yes. The motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. We should. Next, we have case B.O.A. 179, 0093, with the address of 62 Dunster Road, if the applicant and or their representative of the president, will they please explain to the board? Chris Haasford, owner, 62 Dunster Road. The proposal is to finish the basement of a two unit building, extending living space, but not creating an additional unit. Your questions from the board? Oh, there. So in this regard, there won't be any livable space in the basement. No, there is, there is, we are creating livable space in the basement. Is this a sink? I'm sorry. Go, go ahead. So you're adding livable space in the basement to a single family building? It's a two unit building. It's a two unit building. So only the unit on the first floor would have that additional space. Well, it's actually, it's for both units, because the basement, if you look at the plan there, there's a demising wall between the, there's two thirds that go at the first floor, and one third roughly goes with the other unit. Okay. We're proposing to finish both sides. Both sides? Yep. Yeah, just to give the more habitable space. Right, just to give more habitable space. Okay. Okay, great. Any question? Public comment, please. Madam Chair and members of the Board for the record, my name is Jeremy Bemberry. I'm the Jamaica Plain Community Engagement Specialist for the Office of Neighborhood Services. The applicant has completed the community process, which is an assistant of an abuters meeting, facilitated on December 10th. That was very lightly attended, and with no questions or concerns. Next, the proponent presented to both the Jamaica Plain Association and Jamaica Plain Neighborhood Council zoning on January 5th and January 21st, respectively. Both approved the proposal. Thank you for your time and the most offers of you, but services were likely deferred to the Board for the judgment. Any other raise-tans? Well, I'm sorry. Not the unknowledgeable comments. Okay, madam motion. Madam Chair, motion to approve. There are second. Second. Mr. Stambridge. Yes. Mr. Brinnell. Yes. Chair votes yes. The motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Next, we have case B-O-A 1801060, with the address of 268 Chestnut Avenue. If the applicant and or their representative are present, would they please explain to the Board? Yes. Hello. This is Chaz Harveth. I'm the owner and applicant for this change. Next slide, please. So what we propose is a rebuild of this existing addition to the same footprint that's already on the house. It will include adding a 3-quarter Beth to the addition. And the footprint is the same, but the height will increase by 2 feet to allow for insulation and a reasonable ceiling height. Next slide, please. So this is two motivations. The wing is substandard. I'll give examples of that. It was not built with the rest of the house. It's literally built on timbers and lots of broadened wood, low ceiling, no heat, poor insulation. But also, we want to age in place and putting a bathroom on the first floor will aid in that process. Next slide, please. So this is a view of the work, the area to the right, the proposed rebuilt ring. Again, this is physically, it's an empty room to the same footprint. So we're not changing the footprint. We're just installing a rebuilding the wing and installing a bath in it. Next slide, please. And then this is just an example of current conditions. It's literally built on round timbers. There's extensive wood rot everywhere. And the foundation are some freestanding center block like items. And the zoning variance is needed because this existing wing is right on the property line. As is a good portion of the house that was built in the 1850s. So that's, we're not changing the footprint. So we're not making the violation any worse than the existing condition. And then this is a diagram that shows details of the existing wing that we are rebuilding to the same footprint. And I think that's everything. I, what, what we propose to do and motivations. Thank you. Are there any questions from the board? Hearing none, ma'am, public testimony. Madam Chair and members of the Board for the recommended name is Jeremy Bembery. I'm the Jamaica Plain Community Engage and Specialist for the Office of Naples Services. The applicant has completed the community process which is sensitive on the board's meeting facilitating on January 12th, whether the proposal received overwhelming support from all the boarders and attendants. Next, the proposal was presented to Jamaica Plain Naples Council zoning on January 21st when they voted to approve the proposal. To date, our office has received two letters of support sent to the board for review, supporting the upgrade to the property. Thank you for your time and the mayor's office of Naples Services. We'd like to defer to the board for the judge. Madam Chair, there are no additional comments. Madam motion. Motion to approve. Now the second. Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Bernal. Yes. Chair votes yes. The motion carries. Good luck, sir. Thank you. Thank you. Next, we have case B-O-A. 179-89-26 with the address of 15 persons, persons, having it. If the applicant and all their representable presence with their pointed points of the board. Hi, good evening. My name is Owen Murray. I'm the contractor for 15 Brits and Alves. Essentially, one, two, it's a two story home right now. They want to build the two story edition on the rear of the house with a deck. The edition will include increasing the kitchen on the first floor, and then a master bed on the second floor and a master bath for the walk and closet, which provided the family with some, some neared space in the cramped house. Nothing too crazy. Just increased living space from the first floor to the second floor. It's about it. Okay, thank you. Are there questions from the board? Hearing none, may I have public testimony? Madam Chair and board members, Siggy Johnson with the Office of Neighborhood Services, this applicant completed the community process, our office hosted in a butters meeting on December 18th, that which no concerns were raised, and the West Rocksbury Neighborhood Council is supporting this application. That background judgment is deferred to the board. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, there are no additional comments. Okay, will that may have a motion? Motion to approve. Second. Thanks. Thank you, Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Ms. Rena. Oh, yes, yes. Chair votes yes, the motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. And have a wonderful evening, everyone. Everything. Good evening, the four of you.