 Good evening. The City of Boston's zoning board of appeal hearing for February 13, 2025 is now in session. This hearing is being conducted in accordance with the applicable provisions of the open meeting law, including the updated provisions enacted by the legislature last year. The new law allows the board to continue its practice of holding virtual hearings until March 2025. This hearing of the board is being held remotely via the Zoom webinar event platform. This hearing is also being recorded. In order to ensure this hearing of the board is open to the public, members of the public may access this hearing through telephone and video conferencing. The information for connecting to this hearing is listed on today's hearing agenda, which is posted on the public notices page of the city's website, Boston.gov. Members of the public will enter their virtual hearing as attendees, which means you will not see yourself on the screen and you will be muted throughout unless administratively unmuted when asked to comment. Board members, applicants, and their attorneys or representatives will participate in the hearing as panelists, and they will appear alongside the presentation materials when speaking. Panels are strongly encouraged to keep video on while presenting to the board. As with our in-person meetings, comments and support will be followed by comments and opposition. The order of comments is as follows. Elected officials, representatives, elected officials, and members of the public. The chair may limit the number of people called upon to offer comment and the time for commenting as time constraints require. For that reason, the board prefers to hear from members of the public who are most impacted by a project that is those individuals who live closest to the project. If you wish to comment on an appeal, please click the raise hand button along the bottom of your screen and zoom webinar platform. Click it again and your hand should go down. When the host sees your hand, you will receive a request to unmute yourself. Select yes, and you should be able to talk. If you are connected to the hearing by telephone, please press star nine to raise and lower your hand. You must press star six to unmute yourself after you receive the request from the host. Those called upon to comment will be asked to state their name and address first and then can provide their comment. In the interest of time and to ensure that you have enough time to do so, please raise your hand as soon as Mr. Stembridge reads the address into the record. Do not raise your hand before the relevant address is called or the meeting post will not know to call on you at the appropriate time. Mr. Stembridge. Thank you. Mr. Stembridge. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you. Mr. Stembridge. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you. Mr. Stembridge. Thank you, Madam Chair. We will be hearing scheduled five o'clock to February 13. First, we have case B-O-A 165-3711 with the address of 268 to 274 Centra Street. If the applicant and who are their representative of present, would they please explain to the board? Yes. Good evening. My name is on lady Marcellouille. I am currently the manager of B-O-A, the restaurant. This restaurant was established in 2005. We have a lot of work to do with the local residents. The reason why we decided to move to this location is because our location in West Roxbury, which is 5197 Washington Street in West Roxbury, mass. They sold all the buildings. So now we had to relocate. And the relocation is 268 Centra Street to make a plane. We have not made any changes to the existing location, existing restaurant. We've only done decorations and paintings, but we have not done any changes to the building. And currently this is a structure of the premise. The premise consists of 2,200 square feet. It's only one floor. It sets 24 seats. Two bathrooms and no basement. The hours of operations are expected to be Monday to Saturday, 9 a.m. to 9 p.m. And Sundays, 11 a.m. to 7 p.m. Doing a community process. The site Store museums with San location. Are the hours similar or the same as previously? Uh, the other hours are your operations hours of operations similar? Yeah, similar. Close to. Okay. Yeah. From from our other location? No, from what you're replacing. Oh, I'm not really sure, but I'm not really sure. Oh, but I am aware. I saw the the the hours of operations are in the surrounding neighborhood. And the other restaurants in there were around the airlines with our hours of operations. Okay. That's well. Any questions from the board? Hearing none may have felt the testimony. Madam chair and members of the board for the record. My name is Jeremy Bemberi. I serve as the community engaged, especially for the Jamaica plain neighborhood. The applicant has completed the community process, which consisted of random butters meeting held on October 17th, which was well received by the one guest and attendance. There was only one person there how they did. They were supportive. Next, the project was presented to JPMC to make a plain neighborhood council where they received a vote of approval. Thank you for your time and the mayor's office of neighborhood services would like to defer to the board for their judgment. Thank you. Thank you. Any other raised hands? I don't see any other raised hands. Hearing none may have a vote. Wait, there's one raised hand. Okay. Andrea. Hi. Can you hear me? Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay. Yeah. No, I'm neighbor in the area living two to five centric street. And I'm here to support these new business in area. I'm from the South American community. I think it would be very nice to have another. A vendor that provides food for our community in the area. It's I know the place has been vacant for a really long time. So yeah, we just really want to see something coming to the neighborhood and sort of activating this place again. It's such a such a loss and it's a great that if it's a local small business. So yeah, I'm here in full support of the. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Would that may have a motion? I will put forward a motion of approval. Thank you very much. Thank you. Is there a second? Thank you. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Ms. We will. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. The motion carries. Good luck, ma'am. All right. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. 163, 0, 4, 1. With the address of 55 to 57 will street. If the applicant and or their representable present. Will they please explain the case of the board? Hi, I'm the owner. This is my contractor, Larby Hammer. I've lived here since 2003. I've lived here since I was a child. I've lived here since I was a child. And this is a current porch in the back that I've always had. It's open and it's, you know, needs to be replaced. The boards are all rotting. And so I said if I'm going to replace it, I want to make it a little bit bigger. So we're extending it. I think about five feet forward and three feet, three and a half feet to the right. And so that I can use it more than just a few times a year. The board. Okay. Hearing none, I'm going to take public testimony. Madam Chair and board members, Sigi Johnson with the Office of Neighborhood Services. This petitioner completed the ONS community process. Considering the limited scope of the relief, our office asked the applicant to distribute an informational flyer to a butters in a 300 foot radius and this informational flyer and solicited. No feedback to our office. The West Roxbury neighborhood council has voted to support this proposal with that background. We defer to the judgment of the board. Thank you. Thank you. Any other race hands? Yes, Jennifer. Yes, I'm Jennifer Nelson at 55, well, a street. So I own the first floor of the condo unit and I'm in full support of this project. Thank you. I don't see any other race chance. Thank you. Would that may I have a motion? Motion approval. You have a second. Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. This we will. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. The motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Thank you. All right. We might have said a record, but any who. Thank you. Thank you, everyone, for your time and participation. We will see you at the next hearing. Have a good night. Welcome. Good night.