 you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you sir Thank you. Good evening. The city of Boston zoning board of appeal hearing for January 2020. 22nd, 2026 is now in session. The hearing is being conducted in accordance with the applicable provisions of the open meeting law, including the updated provisions enacted by the legislature this year. The new law allows the board to continue its practice of holding virtual hearings through June 2027. This hearing of the board is being held remotely via the Zoom webinar event platform. This hearing is also being recorded. In order to ensure this hearing of the board is open to the public, members of the public may access this hearing through telephone and visual conferencing. The information for connecting to this hearing is listed on today's hearing agenda, which is posted. On the public notices page of the city's website Boston.gov. Members of the public will enter the virtual hearing as attendees, which means you will not see yourself on the screen and you will be muted throughout unless administratively unmuted when asked to comment. Board members applicants and their attorneys or representatives will participate in this hearing as panelists and they will appear alongside the presentation materials when speaking. Panelists are strongly encouraged to keep video on while presenting to the board. As with our in-person meetings, comments and support will be followed by comments and opposition. The order of comments is as follows. Elected officials, representatives of elected officials and members of the public. The chair may limit the number of people called upon to offer comment and the time for commenting as time constraints require. For that reason, the board prefers to hear from members of the board, members of the public who are the most impacted by a project that is those individuals who live closest to the project. If you wish to comment on an appeal, please click the raise hand button along the bottom of your screen in the Zoom webinar platform. Click it again and your hand should go down. When the host sees your hand, you will receive a request to unmute yourself, select yes, and you should be able to talk. If you are connected to the hearing by telephone, please press star nine to raise and lower your hand. You must press star six to unmute yourself after you receive the request from the host. If you have a call to comment, we will be asked to state their name and address first and then can provide their comment. In the interest of time and to ensure that you have enough time to do so, please raise your hand as soon as Mr. Stembridge reads the address into the record. Do not raise your hand before the relevant address is called or the meeting post will not know to call on you at the appropriate time. We ask that you keep your comments brief and all public testimony will be limited to I think we agreed on 90 seconds per speaker. These instructions will be repeated throughout the hearing. Okay, Mr. Stembridge. Good evening, Madam Chair. Mr. Bernel. Good evening, Madam Chair. Good evening. Okay, the floor is yours, Mr. Stembridge. Thank you, Madam Chair. We begin with the hearing is scheduled for 5 p.m. What's today January 27th. The first case is case B.O.A. 179. 5 a.10 with the address of 115. All of the street is the applicant and will they represent the president of the present. Will they please explain the case report? Yes, thank you, Mr. Stembridge. Thank you, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Attorney Jeff Drego with Drego and Tuscano with the business address of 11 Beacon Street. Here on behalf of the applicant homeowners, Emily Moll and Nathan, broccoli. If you could stay on this slide, if you can go back for a moment, Mr. Mell, yeah, thank you. This is a simple proposal to add some head height room to the top floor. As you can see, this is an existing row house and it's typical of the door-nord look up and down the street and at 115 Baldwin Street in Charlestown. We're looking to increase the roof slope which would give interior height at the attic level. You can see there's already existing space there. We're not adding any additional bedrooms or space just head height and we're adding a new dormer adding to the dormer on the front and rear of the building. It's exactly typical of the building to the right of us. This just gives more functionality to that top floor so this family can utilize their bedroom space. There's two bedrooms in a bathroom on the third floor and this will also include some interior renovations on the second floor as well. If we go to the next slide, please, Mr. Ambassador. This just shows the building looking straight on and you can see it's very similar up and down the street. Same look. Next slide, please. This is just an aerial view so you can see where it says 115 Baldwin Street and the building right next to us has a similar dormer look to it for that head height reason. If we go to the next slide, please. Now we just, we would get into the plans and go to the next slide. That's the site plan, next slide, please. And it just starts to show these the existing plans. Next slide. And this just starts to show on that third floor where we would be adding that slope and dormer look. We got cited for two violations. One is building in feet and one is roof structure restriction. Existing roof height just so you have the board has an idea is 36 feet, two and a half inches. We are proposing 38 feet to and a half inches with the dormers. So for that head wound. And beyond that, that would, that's all the work that would be done on site. We also have the architects Lulu Friedman, Emma Liss Olsen here to answer any questions that the board may have. Thank you for your time and that would conclude the presentation piece. Right. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Yes, Madam Chair. So if I can you correctly. Only change that will be no interior changes other than to third floor. Renovations to the second and third floor and then the dormers to the third correct. Thank you. Madam Chair, I also have a clarifying question. The existing top of roof is essentially it's currently lining up with it looks like based on the drawings. With sort of the neighbor on one side and is there proposal to line it that the rich line would line up with the with the neighbor on the other side. So I think that's the architect to speak to that. Yes, that's correct. The presentation we go one more slide. Yeah, if we could pull that there's actually a better. We will see that it says like B1 in the in the set of plans. We, we, is it possible to pull the presentation back up and pay so. If you go a couple of more slides to the B1. We, we drew the two neighbors. Do you have the other slide? Yeah. If you can keep going one more. Yeah. This is the front. So we are matching the reach height on the of the neighbor on the right side. And we are matching the type of the armor and sizing also of the neighbor on the right size. Okay. Thank you. Okay. Thank you. May we have public testimony. Madam Chair, I members, see you also at the Office of Neighborhood Services. This applicant has completed the community process. Our office hosted an abouters meeting on November 24th of 2025 at which no concerns were raised. That background our office to first further judgment to the board. Thank you. Madam Chair, they are not additional comments. Okay. Thank you. With that may have a motion. Chair like to make a motion to approve. Is there a second? Yes. Mr. Stembridge. Yeah. Mr. Bernal. Yes. Thank you. Thank you. Chair votes. Yes. The motion carries. Good luck. Thank you very much. Next we have two companion cases. The first is case B.O.A. 1806137 with the address of 57 Emerson Street. Along with that, we have case B.O.A. And we have two other members. The third one with the address of 59 Emerson Street. Is the applicant and do what they represent on the present? Yes. Thank you. Madam Chair, members, the board. My name is Mark Savatsky. The name of my company is Choose Boston. I'm with me tonight. Please have Mark LeCasse from LeCasse Law, my zoning attorney, and also Talia kind of star our architect from StudioCon. This proposal, if you want mine, who's who's next slide, please. Thank you. This proposal seeks to convert two existing side by side single families into two two families. And I would like to address two key points. That is essentially two duplex units. And I just want to address change of occupancy of a three family, three three family. This is as reflected in the ISD records. And my plans examiner and the records room had asked me to file my proposal following that last known occupancy. Just so there's no confusion. I've only these properties since 2012. I'm going to take this to Talia briefly. She's joined us. Let's talk about the design. Thank you. Context of neighborhood. 5759 members in street is sort of at the junction of East Broadway and West Broadway. Very close to the new blank coffee shop. And opposite the post office. That's probably the best landmark. Next slide. I'm going to kick this to Talia briefly. Nice to meet you. I'm there. I'm here today. I'm at 906 East Second Street in South Boston. So this project was designed to look and feel like it's neighboring buildings within the neighborhood. There's a lot of Mansard roofs and bay windows in South Boston. So we've really tried to accentuate that. Keep the detailing consistent with the neighborhood. And provide that Mansard roof on the new third floor. So we're proposing to add a third story and then the first floor unit would be a by-level with the basement and the second floor unit would be a by-level with this new third floor. Right now we're proposing a roof deck that would be solely privately accessed from the upper floor as well. Thank you, Talia. Next slide, please. To speak on the roof decks briefly again, privately accessed from each respective upper unit. This was something which came up during the community process and discussions with our neighbors. We wanted to provide naturally outdoor space for the upper duplex unit. We had initially a rear deck off the second floor and the roof deck and through some discussions. We settled on a roof deck that was pinched from both directions and a glass roof hatch, given that it's a three-story building, not a four-story building sets that's allowed to be the building code. And we're very sensitive to sightlines from both my neighbors parcel and from the street. And so we deleted the rear deck off the second floor and allowed this to remain for the the private outdoor space for the unit. Next slide, please. I'm going to turn this to Mark LeCast. Turn the LeCast. Thank you. Thank you so much. Good evening, Madam Chair, members of the board. With respect to the two separate zoning code refusal letters, both cited the same three citations. The planning department has submitted two memos in this case, both recommending approval on the planning department memo for number 57. They note that the side yard and the FAR violations are incorrectly cited that the existing and proposed side yard is three and a quarter feet. And the requirement is three feet. So the side yard is met on number 57. The proposed FAR for number 57 is 1.6 and 2.0 is permitted. That's leaving the conditional use permit for number 57, which is under article 68 section 29. If you add a story to an existing structure in South Boston, you need to conditionally use permits for that on number 59. The planning department memo is similar recommending approval and notes that with respect to the side yard issue. It is an existing nonconforming condition, but that the addition does not exacerbate that nonconforming condition. The FAR is diminimous with 2.0 allowed and 2.1 proposed. And similarly, the conditional use permit required for the third floor addition on an existing structure in South Boston. And those are the zoning issues and the planning department recommends approval in both of their memoranda. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Yes, I'm sharing that. My name is Paul. The testimony. Yes, see Johnson with the office of neighborhood services. This applicant has completed the community process. Our office hosted in a butter's meeting on October 29, 2025, at which the direct a butter expressed concerns about the design proponent work directly with them to ensure the deck was revised on plans and set back. Spawning to the concern, run aware of other concerns at this time. Gate of Heaven neighborhood association is in non opposition. That background our office deferred judgment to the board. Thank you. Okay, next we have Sydney. Hi, thank you Madam Chair members of the board. This is Sydney from counselor Flynn's office. Counselor Flynn will like to go on record in opposition due to feedback from neighbors of others in the gate of Heaven neighborhood association. Residents have called attention that these have essentially always operated as single families. And now going from 2 to 4 units, which will exhaust of a quality of life issues with South Boston's existing parking crisis. Moreover, residents have called attention to quality of life issues with the deck and roofed. For years, counselor Flynn has opposed roof decks and residential areas is out Boston due to negative impacts of noise and trash removal issues at all hours on residents, including our seniors versus with disabilities and young families. Thank you. Thank you. Next we have a guy. Paul, please. If you can mute yourself. Hello. I'd like to echo the same concerns. I live right around the corner at 43 H street. I'm actually speaking on behalf of three other abouters at 41 H street for 41 East 3rd and 63 Emerson, which is a box of property. We all have the same concerns. like concerns, the additional units, just exasperating, parking, and just having tenants, renters, we all live here, have families here, and we just, you know, think it all caused a lot of congestion in the issue, it was ever recently echoed, so those were my concerns. And we all pose this project. Thank you. Good, thank you. All right, next we have a Scott. Hi, yes, thank you. I just echo the same concerns about the project. A couple of different things. Well, first I'd say that the, there was a little misleading in the first place about how the project was to be structured. They said it was turning it from a three family to a two family, but then identified that we're going to be an additional story in two units. So that was a little frustrating to learn that just from the start, the neighborhood of Sora felt misled, that this project was going to be a lot bigger than it was. And also say that, you know, a lot of the neighborhood is at that same height. And so adding a floor here sets a bit of a bad precedent for all the other units and to make this into a big overdeveloped neighborhood. It's not like that now. We have a great neighborhood with a lot of kids, a lot of young families, as Keith said. It's going to exacerbate parking, so we're so we're certainly opposed. And I'm one of the residents as well across the street over at 34 Emerson. Thank you. Next, it was up Ashley. Thank you. I'm just going to echo exactly what Scott said. In opposition due to the current crisis with parking. We have children of our own. We have many, many neighbors with children. We don't have services in the city to be able to walk to. So we have to have cars. And unfortunately, our families are being pushed out of the neighborhood because of situations like this. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, they are not additional comments. And the applicant address those concerns parking height density. Brief report on Madam Chair. So on the height, the proposed third floor is within the maximum height allowed in the sub district and height is not a citation on the zoning code refusal letters. So height is compliant. The density is also compliant. This is a multifamily residential sub district, which presumptively allows for or more dwelling units. So the use is not cited in the zoning code refusal letter because the use is allowed on the notion of misleading anyone or anybody. As Mark indicated at the beginning, he initially submitted this building permit application for conversion of single family to two family. So that was the last example of a work in the ISD records from many, many decades ago, the last existing long form on file for both of these properties characterized it as a legal occupancy three family. So because you can only go from the existing occupancy in the ISD records to what you're proposing, they instructed Mark to submit the application as change occupancy from three to two. But that's why he addressed it up front. So he said that there's no question that these are existing single families. So it in reality is going from one to two. But in the records of ISD, they instructed us to go from three to two because that's what the records show. Parking is always an issue in this and every other neighborhood. But so is the need for housing and that delicate balance is always in play. And I think that's those are the issues. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Thank you. Thank you. Hearing none. Is there a motion? And share I'll make a motion of food. Is there a second? Yes. Sure, but yes, the motion carries. Thank you so much. Give your time. Thank you. Next we have. Okay. Mr. December. Okay. Thank you. Next we have case. B.O.A. 1762034. The address of 774 is brought. The applicant and the representative of present. Would they please explain to the board? Yes. Thank you, Mr. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board attorney Ryan Spitz with Adams and Marancy, business address of 168H Street first floor south Boston. Madam Chair, I'd like to request that we move this hearing to a full seven member board given the substantial neighborhood interest in this matter. Although that is a reasonable proposal creating additional housing, this will allow the owner to have a fail opportunity to be heard in front of a full seven member board. Okay. Okay. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Stemperage. Are we having it? Yes, we have. Yes, we have. Will we hear it next Tuesday then? Or. Yes, we're hearing next Tuesday. Okay. So. Would that be a motion to defer till next Tuesday? Yes, we have. Okay. Okay. The chair votes. Yes, the motion carries. We'll see you on Tuesday. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. It takes us to case B.O.A. 177, 6341. The address of 19 pod wall street. If the applicant and do a representative present, the person will be asked to report. I think I'm not sure if it is God is this. Are you presenting for this case? Someone here for 19 pod wall. I don't see any one. Okay. Let's circle back to it. That means we'll go to case B.O.A. 179, 7623. With the address of 27 to 29, Merrill Bank Avenue. The applicant and or their representative of our president. Will they please explain? Well, my name is Jeff Sarge's, our check for the applicant's Mike and Jillian Provenzano at 27. 20 on Merrill Bank. The project seeks to finish off and put a donor on the second floor. The third floor, existing attic of an existing two family. The, what we're going for is floor area ratio. We're required for 0.5. The existing is 0.68. The proposed is 1.15. The increase is due to finishing the basement, which wasn't originally counted in the FAR. And we are also going for the number of stories. We're going from a two and a half to a three. But in that three, we're maintaining the soft line of the exit of the main roof line to maintain the character of the neighborhood and build out dormers. To build out that third floor. We're also flagged for a side yard setback, because the existing house is within that setback. And if you want to scroll down to a 403 has some renderings comparing. I'll be like page 15. There we go. 14 to 15. 14. One before. There we go. So you can see the comparison on the existing hip roof with a small dorm in the front, going from a gable roof with a live stormer to get us that additional space without ruining the neighborhood character. Thank you. Thank you. Questions from the board. Yeah. So the you're saying it's a two family correct? Correct. And then the unit on the second floor, that's the one that would be expanding the area of that unit correct. Exactly. Right now it's a finished added, but the head height is lower. So. Okay, so you're getting rid of. Okay, you're having a gable and in the dormer. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Public testimony. Hello, Madam Chair. Members of board. My name is Eva Jones representing the mayor's office and neighborhood services. We entered the committee to register the Chairman's commission that وهм so strong-OME workers, that was originally part of the property upwards of 20 years ago. Additionally, we did receive one letter in opposition expressing that the community has remained unchanged since the 1970s and stated that this proposal does not align with the neighborhood. The proposal was also reviewed by the Cedar Grove with Civic Association where they secure support for the proposal. At this time, the mayor's office in Ayrbird Services differs to the board's judgment on this matter. Thank you, everyone, for your time and consideration. Thank you. Madam Chair, there are no additional comments. I'm sorry, I have a comment. My name is Christine Wehrer. I live on Rdobank. I had a question. My understanding, besides putting the dormers on, is they're going to excavate the basement to put additional rooms down there? The basement being finished. So why aren't you getting a better understanding of that? So this will be back and forth. So if you have anything else you want to add, just please add it. Well, my understanding is, I'm sorry, it's my understanding is it's two bedrooms. Now it's going to be two four bedrooms and there's no driveway or parking there. Thank you. Can we use applicant respond? So there will be two four bedrooms and the basement is being excavated slightly to get the headroom about six inches. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? May I have a motion? Madam Chair, would like to make a motion to approve? Is there a second? There. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Bannon. Yes. Chair votes just the motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Next, we have case to the way. 179-8986. What you address is two woodware street. If the applicant and who are their representative of present, they please plan to board. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Good evening, Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is James Christopher of 686 Architects with the business address of 10 fours road and brain tree. Here today for two word work, excuse me, on behalf of John Paul Murphy for two woodware street unit number one. The proposal before you is to legalize a previously finished basement space. This project was completed several years ago before Mr. Murphy bought the property. He became aware that there was no permits on the space. We've gone through and drafted it. There's it's would be additional living space. So it's like a family room, no sleeping area. There's a bathroom. Mr. Murphy uses as an office. The only violation is FAR. It's a slight increase from 0.93 to 1.04. There's no change to use or occupancy or footprint. There was no objection from the Port Norfolk Civic Association or a bus. Thank you very much. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Hearing none, ma'am, public testimony. Hello, Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is Eva Jones representing the mayor's office in the neighborhood services. Regarding to Woodward Street, our office differs to the board's judgment. A community process was conducted, including a subcommittee flyer distribution on 10625. During the community comment period, I did not receive any emails regarding this proposal. The Port Norfolk neighborhood association reviewed the proposal and had determined that the proposal did not require a meeting. At this time, the mayor's office in the neighborhood services differs to the board's judgment on this matter. Thank you, everyone, for your time and consideration. And I hope everyone has a good evening. Thank you. Madam Chair, there are no additional comments. Okay. Will that may have a motion? Motion to approve. There is second. Yes. Chair votes, sorry, Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Bernal. Yes. Chair votes, yes, the motion carries. Thank you very much. Next, we have case B-O-A-178-3344 from the address of 16 to 18 Bradfield Avenue. The applicants and do it their representative. Would they please to my report? Hi, good evening. Madam Chair and members of the board. My name is Taylor Tachy. I'm the homeowner along with my husband, Bart Tachy. We are applying for permit for the house that we live in. It's a single or it's a two family house. We own one half of it. It's a side by side configuration and we own the left side. We are proposing to add about 50 square feet to the back of the house to add a small bathroom and mudroom area. And we're in violation of the FAR which is required to be at .5. It is currently at .62 and we're proposing to increase to .63. And it's just one story edition on the back of the property. Questions from the board? Hearing none, may I have public testimony? Madam Chair and members of the board for the record. My name is Jeremy Bembery. I'm the Rosalindale Community Engageant Specialist for the Office of Neighborhood Services. The applicant has completed the community process which consisted of an abuters meeting facilitated on October 29th with no guests and attendants at the proponent move forward and presented to long area neighborhood association on November 10th when they voted to approve the proposal with no opposition. To date our office has received one letter in support of the proposal. Thank you for your time and the mayor's office of neighborhood services would like to defer to the board for their judgment. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, they are no additional comments. Okay, will that may I have a motion? Chair, I'll make a motion of approval. They're a second? Yes. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Brno. Yes. Chair votes yes. The motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Okay. I'll be checking the CFO 19-Bodwell is here. We will do that. Yes. I have 19-Bodwell on the phone and he thinks he may be the Zoom user but he's not sure. He can see everyone on the screen and he is trying to log on so I asked Jesus to elevate him. I do see someone that says Zoom user so if that's him. I believe so because I have him on the phone now but I don't he doesn't really know. Okay. I'm going to what I'm going to do is he's able to speak actually he can admit his self. So if you're the applicant for 19-Bodwell can you identify yourself? If it's the Zoom user you need to unmute. You see. Or is it Mr. Morrison's iPhone? I'll invite where it says Zoom user invite. He's already in the panel section. He's in the panel section already. Yes. Okay. All right. So can you unmute yourself sir? If you're on the phone just press star six. Yeah, to unmute yourself. Okay. Can you hear him? It looks like he's still mute. He's still on mute. Okay. Press star six against her. Okay. You're talking to me. Let me hang up and you press star six. Okay. All right. Bye. Okay. Okay. Is the gentleman for 19-Bodwell? It's able to identify yourself. If you are a Zoom user you are still on mute. So I'm not sure. I don't know how. Yeah. You need to unmute yourself. Okay. Well, I think we if he if the gentleman cannot get on. I think we need to adjourn and see if he can. Come back on Tuesday. I don't know. Stephanie. That will work if we push it out to Tuesday. We'll make sure he's on. Okay. Excellent. So let's do that because it doesn't look like he's able to get in. So with that. The someone can have a motion to defer until Tuesday. Let me do this. Okay. Okay. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you everyone and we will see some of you on Tuesday. Thanks Mr. Brinnell. Hope your first time was not too painful. Have a good night. Thank you.