 you You You P. L. hearing from may 24, 2022 is now in session this hearing is being conducted in accordance with the applicable provisions of the Open Meeting Law, including the updated provisions enacted by the legislature last year. legislature last year. The new law allows the board to continue its practice of holding virtual hearings until July 15th, 2022. This hearing of the board is being held remotely via the Zoom webinar event platform. This hearing is also being live streamed. In order to ensure this hearing of the board is open to the public, members of the public may access this hearing through telephone and video conferencing. The information for connecting to this hearing is listed on today's hearing agenda, which is posted on the public notices pages of citieswebsiteboston.gov. Members of the public will enter the virtual hearing as attendees, which means you will not see yourself on the screen and you will be muted throughout unless administratively unmuted when asked to comment. Board members, applicants, and their attorneys or representatives will participate in the hearing as panelists and they will appear alongside the presentation materials when speaking. Patelists are strongly encouraged to keep the video on while presenting to the board. As with our in-person meetings, comments and support will be followed by comments and opposition. The order of comments is as follows. Elected officials, representatives of elected officials and members of the public. The chair may limit the number of people called upon to offer comment and the time of for commenting as time constraints require. For that reason, the board prefers to hear from members of the public who are most impacted by a project. That is those individuals closest to the project. If you wish to comment on an appeal, please click the raise hand button along the bottom of your screen in the Zoom webinar platform. Click it again and your hand should go down. When the ambassador sees your hand, you will receive a request to unmute yourself. Select yes and you should be able to talk. If you are connected to the hearing by telephone, please press star nine to raise and lower your hand. You must press star six to unmute yourself after you receive a request from the ambassador. Again, press star nine to raise your hand and star six to unmute yourself if you are connected to the hearing by telephone. Those called upon to comment will be asked to stay here, name and address first, and then can provide the comment. In the interest of time and to ensure that you have enough time to do so, please raise your hand as soon as Mr. Fortune reads the address into the record. Do not raise your hand before the relevant address is called. All the meeting hosts will not know the call on you at the appropriate time. These instructions may be repeated throughout the hearing. Let's just take a quick roll call so we know who was on the Mr. Fortune. Good morning, Madam Chair. Good morning, Mr. Regiro. Good morning, Madam Chair. Good morning, Mr. Arleck. Here. Ms. Dawng. Good morning, Madam Chair. Good morning, Mr. Ligress. Good morning, Madam Chair. Good to see you. Miss Better. Good morning, Madam Chair. Good morning. So Mr. Fortune, oh yes, Mr. Hampton. Good morning, Madam Chair. You don't have to worry about me. Okay, I'm not worried. Okay, Mr. Fortune. Thank you, Madam Chair. The first daughter of business, the approval of the hearing minutes of April 26th, the 2022, we need a motion to approve the minute. Okay. All those in favor? Aye. Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Madam Chair, the first extension to be with being with Grants. I want to call it in for the record. Okay, BOA 62954, B185, Winded Street. We are notified by email that this is being with Grants. I'll make a motion to deny without credit. Back on. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Following, next case, our extension, calling BOA 9005486567, Board of Street. Name and address for the record. Hi, my name is Lauren shirt left, Cronin 6567, Board of Street, and it is Boston. Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. Love you. We got 6567, Board of Street. The Board originally granted this relief on March 29th of 2019, and it would have expired on March 29th of 2021. But call we're calling applies to this relief with calling the relief expires in July 4th, 2022. I recommend that the Board to turn for the record that the relief remains valid until that day. The applicant now also requests an additional extension until July 4th, 2023. I recommend that the Board grant that additional extension if it determines that it's appropriate under the circumstances, noting that this would be the applicant's first extension. I'm sure a motion to confirm that relief remains valid with all applicable tolling through July 4th, 2022. And further move that an extension for relief is granted through it, including July 4th, 2023, which of course includes any and all applicable to. Tag in. All those in favor? Aye. Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Thank you very much. Following the next case for extension, calling VIA 91719318 Middleton Street, name and address for the record please. Alfred is on one second. He has his hand raised. Alfred, I send a request to unmute you. Alfred Kiranga, 18 Middleton Street, the largest Massachusetts O2124. I'm new to that per second, Madam Chair. Regarding 18 Middleton Street, the Board originally granted this relief on January 31st, 2020, and it would have expired on January 31st, 2022. But call with tolling apply to this relief zone, the relief expires on May 8th, 2023. I recommend that the Board confer for the record that the relief remains valid until that date. I'm sure a motion to confirm the relief remains valid through May 8th, 2023, inclusive of any and all applicable tolling. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Following the next case for goal final, I'm John Fyfer, 15 Rocky Nup Terrace, unit three. The talent supplier here, Mr. Fyfer? I'm sorry, say that again. Tell us why you're here, Mr. Fyfer? Absolutely. So we have been, I'm a homeowner on my partner Molly's here, also on the call in my architect Austin Drake, because also here, we bought the unit in 2015. We've been living in Jamaica Plain for about 11 years. We had, when we bought the unit, known that it needed some upgrades. It was what allowed us to purchase it, given how high prices are in the neighborhood. We have a family to children. Mr. Fyfer, why are you here? I'm sorry, Mr. Fyfer. I'm sorry, Mr. Fyfer. I'm sorry, Mr. Fyfer. I'm sorry, Mr. Fyfer. I'm sorry, Mr. Fyfer. I'm sorry, Mr. Fyfer. I'm sorry, Mr. Fyfer. I'm sorry, Mr. Fyfer. I'm sorry, Mr. Fyfer. Why specifically are you here today? Sure. Yep, I can tell you. So we were approved by the ZBA in July of 2021 with the proviso that the pitch and scale of the dormer project be reviewed by the Boston Planning and Development Agency. We've had over the course of a number of months had a number of meetings with them. And we sent in a bunch of stuff to apply for this final arbiter thing so you should be able to see our correspondence with them and some of the meetings we had. Are you guys at odds then? We are. Yes. Okay. Hold on. Hold on. Ms. Vetter, did you have a chance to review the plans? Madam Chair, yes. I reviewed the plans and the correspondence. And we have an egg. I'm sorry, were you directing the question to me? Ms. Vetter, do you have any thoughts? So I was fine with leaving the width at one third of the roof. I thought it was reasonable in terms of its size. And the applicant did make a case structurally. Why? I think it was a little bit more than the previous one. It was financially feasible to basically lower the dormer below the ridge. And the applicant is meeting the seven-and-a-half feet requirement of height. So I also made an argument for the pitch at five, 12 performing better. If they were to lower it to the ridge size, the lower to the ridge, it would have not performed well in terms of shedding water. So I'm okay removing that proviso. Okay. May I have a motion then? Motion to remove removing the proviso. A second did, Ligris. All those with figure? So just to be clear, Madam Chair. Excuse me. Mr. Vetter, this board is... That was me. That was me. That was me, Christine. Okay, go ahead. I just want to make clear what proviso is design review is being removed. Is the board now saying that the warmers don't have to be the same as the ridge line? I need to know from our show what exactly is being done. So design review continues. However, I think Ms. Vetter clarified that we are okay with the pitch changing and the ridge line for this particular project. It's not across the board decision. Okay, I just wanted to make that clear because there are other cases that have been seen. Thank you. Okay. Thank you. Okay. Was there a second to Ms. Vetter's motion? A second to Secretary. All those in favor? All right. All right. Any opposed? Motion carries. Calling an 8-8-4-4-5-9-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-8-6-0-32-Ritchfields-3. Name and address for the record, please. Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Attorney Ryan Stitt. Adam Zomeransi with the Business Address of 350 West Broadwood. This was a proposal that was approved for four units in six parking spaces by this board on February 2, 2021. And the decision was signed off on April 12, 2021. It was an appell filed in Superior Board on April 23, 2021. Through the litigation process, the owner and the plaintiffs have now agreed to resolve the litigation matter. Conditional upon changing the proposal from four units six parking spaces to two units with four parking spaces using the same footprint as proposed on the original approved set of plans. The lot area is 5,675 square feet, which is the existing condition. We're in a sub-district of a 2F6000. So, Ms. Aspitz, why are you here? So, what are the outstanding violations that still hold? Because you are decreasing the unit count from four to two. So, please tell us precisely, okay? Okay, so precisely the violations that will stand now would be locked with minimum frontage, FAR and Sideyard. The lot of changes so the lot with currently is 40 feet on the left, 50 feet on the right, and the minimum frontage is 40 feet. Those didn't change from the original approved set of plans. Those will still remain existing. FAR was decreased from 1.05 to now a seven. Building heights stayed the same except for stories. The stories was reduced to a 2.5, which is now zoning compliant. Open space is no open space requirement here, but the open space was increased from 1,000 in 8 square feet to 1,643 square feet. Ms. Aspitz, you're throwing this off schedule here with your thoroughness. So, you're essentially requesting a change from four units and six parking to two units and four parking. Ms. Better, have you had a chance to look at the plans? Yes, Madam Chair and the plans are adequate. May I have a motion, please? I'd like to before a motion of approval. What do we need design review? With BPDA design review, yes. Is there a second? Second, Ligris. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Good luck. In that case, the G card, PolyDLA 129174933-41, Bondsworth Street. This is a change of rock from this 95,300 square foot bill, which includes 47,936 square feet of research lab recurring and used the 46,074 square feet of office used to remain. The Corridged Shell renovations include the service elevator and the rooftop, mechanical penthouse and upgrades of rear loading areas. Violation.ical32, section 32, that's all this is B.Caw. They've been at the fuller actually. Morning, members of the board and Madam Chair. My name is David Lincarb with the Coast and End Stores, 400 Atlantic Ave. This project at 3341, Bondsworth is essentially re-tandeting of an existing office building with the MV, existing building envelope. It'll remain half office use and then the other half will be converted to lab use. So Mr. Linhardt, so the lab use, the research lab isn't allowed use in the building? Yes. Okay, may I hear from Mr. Seminelli? Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board, Christian Seminelli, Boston, Valorant Trust. And we have both letters from the applicant. Okay. Let me check what you have as well as Secretary here. May I have a motion, please? Motion will approve. All goes in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Miss Sillinhardt, the best part of your day. Thank you. I'm going to call the 930 hearings for any deferrals or withdrawals. Give me the address first please. So the 930 hearings for any deferrals or withdrawals. Any none? I'll call the first case. I'll incase BLA1318150270 Summon Street. This is directly for a story edition of Rare Decks. The 4th story edition for the Rare Decks and Change of Arc from a 324 unit residential dwelling. The violation of Article 27G, this is in the East Boston iPod. Article 53, Section 56. Osprey loading is insufficient. Article 53, Section 56, Osprey parking and loading is insufficient. Article 53, Section 8 is used in regulation. Article 53, Section 9. Lowly air ratio is excessive. Article 53, Section 9. The building has excessive stories. Article 53, Section 9. The building height is excessive. Article 53, Section 9. Use of low-pitched spaces in submission. Article 53, Section 9. Stadiate of insufficient. Article 53, Section 9. The Rhea is insufficient. The immunadvice bill is directly put. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. Richard Lins with the Business Address of 245 Summon Street, East Boston. On behalf of the petitioner, Van Dred with the silver who is with us this morning. We can probably jump right to slide three on this just so we can get idea of what the existing conditions look like. Madam Chair, this is a pre-existing nonconforming structure at the local Jeffries Point Section of East Boston. On Summon Street closest to Maverick Square. Our proposal would reprogram the entire building, change legal occupancy from three units to four units, and propose a vertical addition as well as a rear addition to change the living space in the entire building. The units would consist of three three bedrooms and one two bedroom. The average size is about a thousand square feet pregnant up to about 1100 square feet total. What we're looking at here is the rendering of the finished product, proposed finished product. It would point out and unfortunately a different architects for the project to be the next door. But this is identical to the project to the building on the immediate right of our building. We're actually under construction for a similar proposal. We're not proposing any roof deck above the fourth level. So what we see is the stepped back fourth level with a front balcony only. In the layout of the units, if we jump down to, I believe, page seven or eight. It's the existing condition. We could just jump one more. Existing condition one more. There we go. So we're showing the first with basement plan showing storage and utilities only no living space. First floor to be a flat style unit as well as the same similar layout on the second floor. We go to the next page. We are creating by-level units on both the third and the fourth third and fourth unit. So you would enter in the third level have been turned off stairwell to access the living area on the fourth level. As you can see from the addition, we do scale the building in a bit to respect some of that side yard setback that presently exists. While the front portion of the building remains attached on both sides, that's a sort of world style. We do set the building in a bit to create a little bit of a setback in the back. By way of relief, this is in the three after 2000 district. We do require relief for the additional unit as MFR is not permitted in this section of the neighborhood. We do have sufficient lot size at the little over 2000 square feet, but would require relief for the additional dwelling unit that's being proposed. We do meet them in on lot with a lot frontage, a little bit over 20 feet. Our FAR is currently non-conforming. It's about a 1.25 would be increasing that to 2.34. So there is a necessary for that as well. Increasing the height of the building allowable is 35 feet would be increased at about 7 feet to about a little over 42 feet. As well as the number of stories we go from three to four. We're not making any modification of the front of the buildings, so therefore the existing model would apply. We do require relief however for the side yard for the portion of the extension that would be within the two and a half feet on the left side of the building. We do a setback of about 1.8 feet that's closest point. So we are required for that. Our rear yard, although we don't a lot another property directly behind us, we do have a private way that's about 12 feet in width. But our rear yard to our rear property line is measured at about 22 feet where the 30 foot required setback is necessary. Last but not least is parking Article 53 requires that you only require to add parking for the additional unit being proposed. In this case because this is a pre existing condition with no parking, we're only required to add one parking spot. I know consistent with the city's policy, even if we could create a curb cut on this site, we would not be able to. We make one sense to add up one part of parking spot to the detriment of the surrounding neighborhood and on a street parking that will be available. I'm happy to answer any questions that chair. Is it possible to have to add parking for the rear yard? There is access to the back portion from Emma place Madam chair. We do maintain that as open space and we will continue with creating a courtyard in the back. We could access the rear. However, we do that while sacrificing some open space. There is, you know, at least a decent size buffer between the back of our building and in the place. How would the clients respect her? I'm sure that plans are adequate. Any questions from the board? Yeah, there's an addition of a fourth story. In the rendering, it looks like it is higher than the neighboring buildings of Mr. Lin. You said that the building on the right has the same feature. That is correct through the chair. The building next door to 72. The same design. It is set back for level. This is consistent with 303. 302. 304. I believe there is one more in summer as well. It is consistent with the recent renovations that are occurring on this housing stock. Is anybody here to speak and support on this proposal? Yes. Good morning, Madam Chair and members of the board. We need to have the meeting office of the neighborhood services. Our office held on a button for this project on March 9, 2022. There were no buttons that attended. Although we did receive three letters of support from director butters. The applicant met with the Jefferson Point neighborhood association in late 2021. The association voted in opposition with 10 residents in favor and 18 opposing. Those opposing felt that the building would be too tall and that they should not be a fourth floor. At this moment, our office would like to defer judgment to the board. Thank you. Thank you. I would like to thank the staff for the question. This vote was made despite the fact that there were other such proposals on the street or other such construction on that street. So this vote. No, no, no, no, go ahead from ONS, please. Thank you. This vote was taken in 2021. Lina Tramilli was here as a liaison back then. Considering that the neighbors do not like the height of the fourth floor. I'll probably say that they set the same thing for every single part of the four. Thank you. Given that we've had a change at ONS, Mr. Lindsey, you want to summarize quickly? I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. Thank you, Natalia, for adding that information. So I can attest to the board that there's been sort of a mixed reaction depending upon Jeffery's point makeup of voting mean makeup. I think it's critical that direct of butters were in favor of this renovation. This building is in the horrible condition. It needs upgrades. And we certainly expressed to them that we are trying to maintain some of the character change. So I think it's been sort of a mixed bag on what has been supported at Jeffery's point on what has been opposed. But in this particular case, especially that there's no roof deck, have house, et cetera. This is pretty consistent with the building and using to which right. I know that's not binding upon the zoning board, but thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Is anybody here to speak, either in support or in opposition? I think you have a secretary here. I mean, we do have the letters from that the mayor's office spoke of the three support letters and one opposition. I do have the opposition letter is dated on April 26, 2022. Thank you. Anybody here from the City Councilor's office? District City Council's office? I have reached out. I'm out of the chair with the plans. I'm not sure their office is waiting. I didn't hear it back. Thank you. Mr. Hosseter? Yeah. I have a motion. Please. Mr. Hampton. Sorry, Mr. Hampton. That's okay. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the Wood Jeff Hampton, senior zoning planner. We've recommended to know without prejudice for the fourth floor addition. We've been consistent on our recommendations for the fourth story additions along the stretch of some of the street, especially while we're doing the planning is boss. And so to be consistent, our recommendation is to know without prejudice. Thank you. Thank you. I'll give you that information. We have a motion place. I like to put a motion forward of denial without prejudice. There are second. A second. All those in favor? Any opposed? I'm opposed. Mr. Rejiter's opposed motion carries. It's been denied with our prejudice. Thank you. Following next case, calling BLA 129594514 to party be straight. This is a change of argument. This can cancel on store to cafe doc T shop. By the way, that's for party three section 19. Take out use table is conditional. In the address for the record. Hi, my name is Max Hall and Kathy fan. We are the owners of the long term tenors of 40 B street. We like to improve. Change the existing here salon. Into a coffee truck that shop. We have a long term 40 B street. We need to change of occupants for that. So how do you have experience with. Take out use in the city of Boston? Yes, I've been the restaurant manager for the very corporation hotel change. From that. And I used to manage the Starbucks up in the coffee mall. Okay, so you do understand the take out use. Okay. Yeah. How are the plans miss better? Madam chair, the plans are adequate. Is anybody here to speak and support on opposition of this proposal? Good morning. Good morning, my chair members to the board. My name is Chu Van Faw from the mayor's office and people services. And a matter of meeting was held by my office on April 4, 2022. And I'm going to go to the mayor's office. I'm going to go to the mayor's office. This applicant has support. Change our neighborhood can also in addition to. Change our mainstream. With that said, we will defer to the expertise of the board. Good morning, my name is your members of the board. I'm a call it on from council president's flings office. The councilor would like to go and record and support it. Thank you. I have no way of paying it at the moment. May I have a motion please? Motion to approve for this afternoon, only with the usual take out language. Do we need design review on sign-out or anything? I mean any new science will come to us anyway. Okay. So this applicant only and the usual take out language. Is there a second? Yeah. All those to favor any opposed motion carries. You're all set for that. Provise up with those provisos. Following the next case, by the way, one two eight seven eight six five twenty one to twenty three. Three those three. This is a change of opportunity from an abandoned and bullet structure since 2015 to a nine unit affordable multi-fueling. This will be a total renovation in addition to a new red egress. The first day away at tower with group penthouse. The elimination of the existing fire escapes by a list of article fifty six twenty nine excessive that they are. Article fifty six twenty nine is sufficient open space per unit. Article fifty six twenty nine is sufficient. Rea set back. Article fifty six twenty nine is sufficient additional lottery or a unit. Article fifty section forty three. The last three five. It's a patient and article fifty six twenty six. The MF are used to bid to the residential sub just. Name an address for the record please. My name is Rebecca Plough. I'm the director of real state for the Jamaica plane neighborhood development corporation. Which is through our subsidiary Lorenzo best holdings the owner of the parcel. Our business address is thirty one Germania street. We are the neighborhood based group based in Jamaica. So Rebecca we know exactly what JPM DC does. Can you get to the core of what's being proposed here? Sure. I'd like to move to slide eight if we could to just summarize the community process and then I'll turn it over to our architect explain the relief. We'd like to go directly to the prop project to understand the beef. Understand the size of the units and the core of this proposal. Terrific us turn it over to Fernando Domenici architect. Thank you. Madam chair members of the board of Fernando Domenici DHK architects at 54 Canal Street. We're here looking for relief on the listed number of issues that was raised at the beginning of the introduction of the project. This is an existing building that until it hadn't not been seen permit in 2015 how 17 units were looking. So architect Dominic can you please go ahead and tell us about the size of the units. The number of bedrooms all the stuff that's important to us as the board of appeal. Yes. And then walk through the violations. What's required and what's being proposed. The project entails nine dwelling units three three bedrooms three two bedrooms and three one bedroom units all in accordance with the requirements of D and D for size, etc. And we're preserving the exterior of the building. We're preserving the building envelope or adding an egress there to the back of the unit. In fact, the view showed me the previous slide and no, the one before before that this actually illustrates you on an existing not conforming building in the in the red line and it shows you in the blue line. How we're modifying the perimeter of the building. So a series of these require of these relief issues are really essentially pre existing not conforming situation. We need we have extensive FAR. So let's talk about the rear yard. Because it looks like you're adding a storage facility in the rear. Can you tell us what the violation what's required and the zoning and what would be proposed under this? Yes. Under zoning were required a 30 foot rear backyard. And so the one that includes the egress there from the third floor all the way down the grade. Also include a one story element that is an enclosure for trash containment and and the like. That was a direct response to the neighbors request and concerns about. And I'm going to miss the dominant proceed. What is the and what is required and what are you proposing what's the rear proposed? We're proposing a 20 foot rear yard. 20 feet. Okay. And so I'm sorry. So the so the bedroom. The bedrooms are meeting the affordable unit. Tell us about the vent house. The vent house is essentially the extension of the stairwell to get a line up to the roof. And that that's all that we're that's all that's doing that's the so called pen house. Okay. And is there any occupancy in the basement? No, there's none. Okay. And tell us what is Rebecca. Can you please tell us what the target residential population is? What am I? This will be 80 to 120% to am I this we originally planned to do rental but it responds to request for the neighbors we have converted it to a home ownership project. Okay. And are any of these units handicapped accessible? First floor units are accessible. Yes. Okay. How are the plans, Ms. Meadow? And I'm sure the plans are adequate. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak and support of this proposal? Modern Madam chair members of the board. This is Jason. There's a office neighbor that services while we are not going to be making a form of decision on this matter will be deferring to the expertise of the board. I do want to highlight the extensive community process that the applicant has gone through and also highlight the support letter from Roxbury path forward that should have been sent to the board yesterday. Thank you. I do have one raised hand. Anybody here to speak in opposition raised hand to. Hi, this is Lorraine painkweeler and I'm calling on behalf of Roxbury path forward with neighborhood association. My address is 85 more on street and we did meet with the group from JP and DC. And we did ask about the trash as a matter of fact. So we're very happy that they are renovating the building and we did insist upon homeownership units for reasons that I'm sure the chair of the board knows things that are happening in Roxbury in terms of affordability. And the last thing that I will say is that we didn't actually see a copy of the final plan. So if possible, if the board can ask for the landmarks commission and also be pd8 design review for those elements that we did really see. Thank you. I just like to call it as we understood we had sent everything to the neighbors were obviously happy to resend it and work throughout the process. Is this a historic district? Yes, actually the JP and DC work to create this historic district and. Oh, right, because there's a lot of confusion in the community about that. I remember that now. That Mr. Master anybody else with a raise. May I have a motion please? Motion approved with designer view. Is there a second? Can we just say specifically on the choice of the exterior material to be complimentary with the maestrian. Yeah, exterior material is there is all those in favor? Any opposed? Motion carries. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Call him in the next case. 27 to 29. This is a new family dwelling on a vacant lot. This is a D and D project. Violates that a 60 section 9. A lot of areas in sufficient. The next one is a very important one. Forming would be an existing building alignment. Even had just the record. That I'm working on your request myself. Mr. Maraza do you have to recuse yourself on the next one to? Yes. Okay. Madam Chair, to that point, the next one that they technically are companion cases because they're part of the same scattered sites. I'm not sure if the board would like to create a record together or so I can do that. I'm sorry. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning. Madam Chair, I'm Mr. Board. The attorney, Matt Eccle with Drago in Tuscano with the business address of 11th Beacon Street. Also present this morning, our Dwayne voice from Norfolk Design and Construction. Chris Drew from 686 architects and first in student from the mayor's office of housing. We are proposing at 27 Browning Ave to erect a new two family home on a vacant lot. This is part of the neighborhood home's initiatives. So this project is being conducted in association with the mayor's office of housing. So tell us directly about the existing building alignment. So as you can see right there in that page, Madam Chair, we are close. There's officially not really an existing building alignment. Post of the buildings along the street and along the next street when we get to that one. Our between about 10 and 20 feet. So we are proposing a setback of 18 feet, which is right around the average. It's just not official. Okay. And this is the usual design from D&D, the prototype that they have. That's correct. It's fairly similar. It is a two family. So we're proposing unit one to be on the first floor. We have about 670 square foot unit with two bedrooms, one bath. And as you can see there on the site plan, a rear deck as well as a front porch. Unit two would be located on the second and third floor. I'll told just over 1,400 square feet at 14 and 1,423 square feet. The second floor would have one bathroom, the majority of the living space as well as a front and rear deck. And then the third floor would be the upper level of unit two with three bedrooms and one bath. Okay. How would the plans miss better? As better as we can. So sorry. Mr. Alec. The plans are fine. There's straightforward. It's live on grade and they're fine. Okay. Is anybody here to speak and support of this proposal? Is anybody here to speak in opposition? Morning, Madam Chair. This is the board. Denise. You can choose here from the mayor's office of neighborhood services. I would like to go on record and state that the applicant has completed the community process. They had no butters meeting and member of the association to meet with the needs of the community. I'd just like to defer all the board. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. We do. We just want to request that. I'd be just like from the district for city council office. We are going once going record and support this project. Thank you. Thank you. No additional raise hands. Thank you. May I have a motion place? Motion to approve with BKDA designer. Thank you. Thank you. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. On your next case, calling VLA 1-2-955-8229, Bradley Street. This is a rected new one family dwelling of the inlawful violation. Article 6560-42 conform to the existing building alignment. Article 65-6-9. The Wadieree's in submission. The amendment has just been rejected. Good morning. Madam Chair, members of the board, attorney medical with Greg on Discono with the business address of 11 BKD. Once again, join with me. They are doing voice, Chris Drew and Hurston's studio. As mentioned, we're seeking to erect a single family home here on a vacant lot. This is part of the same Scattered sites neighborhood homes initiative. This is located in a 2F-5,000 zoning sub district. Two violations noted again are conforming with existing building alignment. Similar situation to the last case. You can see there how we do essentially line up with our butter. We're proposing 15 foot step back to the deck. And then actually a 21 foot step back to the actual where the structure actually begins as housing. In terms of the layout here, we are proposing a single family home about 18,000, 1,800 square feet. The first floor would contain the living area with a half-path and a rear deck. The second floor would contain three bedrooms and one bathroom. And then the proposed third floor is really just unfinished attic space. With that, I'll pause and take any questions or comments from the board. How are the plans miss better? I want to get. No, I'm so sorry. I was in that mode of miss a Bessani. You remember for the longest time. So miss a look out the plans. The plans are fine. Similar, similar, similar level and grade design. Is anybody here to speak and support our opposition of the proposal? Learning Madam Chair, members of the board, Denise DeSansos from the Office of Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. The applicant has met with the community a few times as well around this project. And they met with the director and butters. I would like to defer any questions to the board at this time. And Madam Chair, I do have one last hand. I'll be. Sorry, you want me to be jibble. Thank you. The problems from the district force of the council office. Thank you, Chair. The district force of the council office wants to go on record for support of this project. Thank you. May I have a motion? Motion. Maybe you designed to do. Thank you. All those in favor? Hi. Hi. Any opposed? Motion carries. Thank you. I'm going to ask an ex-case calling to the LA128-551-131 to pawn the valley backway. This is the demolition of an existing two-family dwelling. This spans two parcels under common ownership. And a 2.5-thousand sub-district, a high-pack neighborhood. This is the combined parcels that the force constructed for unit multi-family residential. The violation of the Article 69 Section 9, insufficient open space, Article 69 Section 8, a multi-family dwelling use. The benefit. And I have the 29 Section 4 of this be brought up with ability, naming address, full directly. Good morning, Madam Chairman and members of the board. My name is Nicole Dumpy with High Point Engineering. Address is 980 Washington Street, suite 216 and dead in Massachusetts. I am here with the applicant, Yvonne Boutette, his son Mark Boutette and the architect, Jonah Managat. Good job. Yeah. Good. Yeah. Please want to share. Please just stand. Describe to us what is being proposed. And there's an existing two-family home that exists on the property. There's actually two blocks. The first lot about in the Pont de Valli Parkway is an existing non-conforming lot. There's a lot directly behind it. That's an existing conforming lot and access to 5,000 square feet. The project proposes to combine the lots as one, because they are in common ownership. So, we're going to take care of the two-family home that was recently damaged by fire. Construct a two-dozen square foot footprint with four residential units, two on each floor. We're also proposing to provide eight zoning compliant, ob-street parking spaces in the rear of the property. Some landscape improvements. Tell us about the first of all, but these going to lots going to be combined at the Suffolk County Registry of Deeds. Are you proposing to hold them separately? I think we'll approach the hold them separately as they currently are. And we'll construct a building at the front. The building spans the two-party lines. So, let me cross easements for parking. If they're under the same ownership, so I don't know. But we always think about this building hopefully will be around for 50 years. Should it be sold? We want to make sure that future residents are protected. So, that's something to think about. Give us a breakdown on the units. Homie bedrooms, homie square feet. So, the units, the 40 units are approximately 900 square feet in the area. Each unit will have two bathrooms and two bedrooms with a living area, kitchen area, in-unit laundry. And there'll be a finished basement for storage. And is there any proposed adicuse? There is not. I'm sure the plans are adequate. Any questions from the board? Anybody here to speak and support our opposition of this proposal? Morning, Madam Chair. This is the board. This is Danielle Ponceka with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. The board is on February 23, 2022. During this meeting, there was no opposition that was expressed. Director butters who live on Albarmaro Court side, which is to the back left of the property. If you're looking at the Ponce Valley side, stated they would like to see the inclusion of trees or fencing that would create more privacy. The board was on March 21, 2021. The applicants presented to the Revelle Watch neighborhood group. This was on March 21. With the exception of one person who indicated they would like to see more green space, everyone in attendance was in support of this initiative. We have received 22 letters of non-opposition for this project, which have also been sent to the board for review. At this time, we would like to defer to the board for judgment. Good morning, Madam Chair and members of the board. Jordan Free, I'm here from Councillor Recardo and Royals office. We want to go on record and support of this proposal. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Secretary. We do have support. Can you hand me the mic? Yes, I'll have Richard. Can you station him and I just fill the record? Hi, my name is Richard G. N. Antelope. I live directly on 21 Wattles Street, which is next door to 131. I'm a complete support of the program. My neighbor, who is actually his backyard, is the rest of 131 Deponsor Valley's workplace land. He's impartial to what I spoke to me since he doesn't care what they do. He doesn't have any opposition to it. I think there was a neighbor in a butter that was making phone calls to the city about the automobiles and the carbidus and absentee landlord. Thank you so much. Madam Chair, I have no additional raise fans at the moment. This is also the Green Belt Protection Overlay District on Deponsor Valley Parkway. The green space will be an important element of any design or any approval. May I have a motion? Jeff, did you have anything to go on the record? Thank you, Madam Chair. I'm Chairman of the Board of Staff, and I have to go to parks for design reviews as well. But we are in favor of the project that's just I think we want to add some screening and buffering to that backyard area. Thank you. May I have a motion please? Madam Chair, I'd like to put forward a motion of approval with a proviso to review the parking and to add screening and also to add pervious pavement. Okay. Is there a second? A second, that, Ligris. All goes in favor. Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you very much. I'll go next case, calling the OA 1306296 36 Rockton Road. This is a renovated one-family home by its main existing first and second story living space. Moving the existing red deck, erecting a new red deck. We made the one-family by a label 6769. That guy is insufficient. Even at just for the record. Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the Board. My name is Kevin Cludier from the Cludier Law firm located at 1990 Center Street in West Roxbury. And I'm joined by the homeowner and applicant, Michelle Skate. And what we are asking this board to do is to allow a grant of variance for one violation, which would be a side yard setback violation. What the Skatehels are looking to do is to expand their existing single-family home to accommodate their family. And I'm going to ask the Gerard and Michelle Skatehelt, both board and arranged to converse enough for children ages currently 11 to 5. And they're just seeking to make their home a little bit bigger to accommodate that family. As I stated, the violation actually can consider it. So tell me what the total square foot addition is proposed to be. Thank you. At the end of the day, it's going to be 1,920 square feet. So the additional 600 square feet from the existing 1,320 square feet. So they're adding 600 square feet. Okay. And now let's what the side yard is required and what is being proposed. Right. The requirement is 10 feet on that side that we see right here on the slide. And the existing is 6 feet, 6 inches. And the violation. And so that's a pretty existing non-conforming condition. And the violation is triggered because the renovation calls for extending that side wall. And it's going to extend out. It's currently a 31 foot 7 inch wall. The extension is going to bring it to 38 feet. So it's basically enlarging that non-conforming process. Miss, better, how are the plans? I'm sure the plans are adequate. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Good morning, Madam Chair and Members of the board. My name is Ujra Nochi. And I am from the Mayor's Office of Labor Services. For 36 Rock and Road, they did a getting contact with their neighborhood organization. Sorry. They got in contact with the neighborhood organization. Lana and there weren't that many concerns. It was just regarding the level of the backyard, but that would be seen the same. And we did receive about 11 letters of support for this project. Thank you. Thank you. We have letters of support as well. Madam Chair, Members of the board, Paul Solving City Council, large Michael Plarity. Jerry Michele, the great Parkway family and the council, they do own records of work. Thank you. I'd like to make a motion of a brief. I would like to ask you a question. Is there a design review? It's a rare edition. That's what the BPD, let's see. The BPD has recommended design review. Sure. Is there a second? Second. All those in favor? Any opposed? Mary's good luck. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you. Thank you for being here. You must work hard on it. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I am. Councillor, so I needed to inform you that this is a six member board and you need five members and support. Thank you, Madam Chair. We'll be we'll go forward. Attorney Jeff Durango, and Draco DeScano with the business address of 11 Week in St. Here on behalf of the applicant, and with the mayor also have Adam Blastman who's the architect note the description has actually changed from what was read. The proposal is to combine the two lots and to change the occupancy from two existing two family residential buildings to a seven unit residential building with a one-story recessed addition on the top floor. This will also include a full renovation of the building. We are proposing to add the three additional units on the top floor. The picture is actually great if we can leave that for a minute. So adding up one floor to match us lower, but to the buildings, to the right of us. And then one floor in the lower level that is over 95% above grade. This particular zoning district is an MFR. Our lot size is 5,145 square feet. And it says 4,965. I'm sorry, man, Chair. So it's 4th. Sorry, what is it? 5,145 square feet for the two buildings. This also does fall in the Aberdeen Historical District. We worked with the Conservation Commission throughout this project just to go over the plans that are shown. So lower level has the house unit one. That is two bedroom, two bath unit at 1,215 square feet. It has eight foot ceiling height, three means of egress through the front of the building, through the side of the building, and through the rear of the building. On the other side, which is now 34, that would just be a gym and storage space for the building. Going up to the first level, that would house units two and three. That would be those would be two bedroom, two bath units with rear decks at 1,310 square feet and 1,425 square feet. Going up to the second floor would house units four and five. Those would both be two bedroom, two bath units at 1,420 and 1,430 square feet with rear decks. Going up to the third floor, that has a recessed 12 foot pullback on our addition. That would house units six and seven. Those are two bed, two bath at 1,050 square feet and 1,040 square feet. They have a front and rear deck where those where that's pulled in. And just to know, right now the bedroom count of this building is seven to them. So it's sort of a hot pod of bedrooms throughout those four units. We would be lowering the bedroom count to four to them. And this would become a condominium building. So 14 bedrooms and this would be a condo. Tell us about the parking. There is no parking currently, and since we're keeping the building structures, there's no ability to create parking. But as I mentioned, we are lowering the unit count. So all the plans must better. I don't share the plans or adequate. Any questions from the board? Just a comment, nine units, just avoiding the affordable. No, no, no, no, no. You did to seven now, Mr. Olek. Okay. Okay. Seven worlds. It's some, and this is city royalty again. This is city royalty, yes. Okay. Any other questions from the board? Does anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition? Yes. Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Conor Newman with the Mayor's Office and Neighborhood Services. At this time, the Mayor's Office, like you defer adjustments to the board, has a background information on the community process. It was a long, spirited one. The last of all, it's been, butters meeting our office held was December 7, 2020. Since then, the applicant was working with neighbors to try to address some of their concerns. They made the switch to go home ownership of condominiums. A number of residents felt that that addressed any concerns they may have from the report to seeing where home ownership opportunities for that particular neighborhood. However, there's still remained a couple of neighbors that were concerned about just what they felt was a lot of density and potential on a very narrow street to have a lot of turnover. Thank you. Oh, they also went to the, sorry, the right-hand side. We're trying to scare Secretary. And we do have those letters that the Mayor's Office spoke of. We do have the opposition as well. And they went to the Bright Niles and Improvement Association received their support. Thank you. Do you have a few ways to answer? I'll start with Ed. I sent a request to unmute you. Can you say to me, my name and address for the record please? Hi, I'm Ed Redenburg. And I live at 31 working right. I live right across the street from this property. I had a couple questions specifically from this presentation. He's at the basement level. He had three addresses. At this moment in time, there are no questions. We just need to know whether you're in support or in opposition. All vetting should have occurred at the community level. And we trust that the applicant will be in touch with the community. I wasn't in, oh, sorry. I wasn't invited to any of these meetings on my letter. Okay. So given what you've heard on this presentation and that they in fact have worked with the community, tell us what your thoughts are or maybe at this point you may not want to go on record either in support or in opposition. Oh, I'd like to go on record as being opposed to this. I wasn't invited to express my opinions on it during these of other meetings that they mentioned. And the project has changed as well. What was presented to me last year was much different. There weren't roof decks. I mean, it's a college area. So having a roof deck is sort of a recipe of, you know, for accident, you know. Yeah, this plan is completely different. Thank you. You go ahead. Can you say your name and address for the record please? Yes, hello. I am at 15 Orkney Road, so right on the street. And I see the product from my windows and the batter. I have been a long time neighborhood activist and I'm generally opposed to rooftop additions. But in this case, I have to say that the developer has worked closely with the batters to make sure that the addition is properly designed and although we are reluctant to accept something like this and we hope that the CPA will not allow rooftop additions in our neighborhood on those older homes. This property is so rundown that I believe that the only way to actually save it and make it useful to the neighborhood, it's a nice building, is to have a nicely designed rooftop addition. However, the application for this project describes the earlier version of this project and it doesn't mention the promise that this is going to be majority-owner occupied condos. So I'm very concerned and my neighbors are as well, that if they get approval for this project, they can simply flip it and sell it to another developer who will not keep promises to the batters. So I would very much like a provider to be added to this approval, stating, reiterating that the promise that this is going to be a majority-owner occupied condos because there is no room for constant risk. Thank you, Mr. Webster. Anybody else? The prior area. Yes, Brian Bailey, on the border at 36 Orkney, speaking in objection to the project. Yeah, the fact that it's changed is news to me and the roof deck, yeah, it seems like a press conference for disaster. And I've seen the pictures of the building and their beautiful apartments and I don't see any reason to tear it up at this point. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Annabelle, through the Bright and Austin Improvement Association. This project has gone through a lot of changes. They've worked with the neighbors. They've come to the BIA several times. And we voted to support it because it has gone to owner occupancy. The attorney has expressed that he will put it into the condo documents, the 70% owner occupancy. And we do like the fact that it is being changed from a rental building to a home ownership. And the roof deck should not be a problem with home ownership at 70%. So we voted to approve it. Thank you. Thank you. And I have one more hand raised. Be a trust, go ahead. Yes. I would like to say that I'm okay with the project as long as it is for the record please. As long as it is a major owner occupying condo. We have to take you back. That's it. You have to ask for the record. Hello. Yeah. Can you stay tuned in address? I can't get you. Okay. So I basically, I'm okay with the development. Sorry. Miss miss. Can you put your name and address on the record for us please? Where do I put that? Because I'm late. Stayed. Stayed it. Okay. Thomas, 84 would have a new, I can see the building. I'm sorry. You know, address again. 84 angle would have a new. Thank you. We have your testimony on the record. So given that information, may I have a motion? Is anybody else there? Out there? May I respond? Thank you. So no, no, we got it. May I have a motion please? Yes. I'd like to put forward a motion of approval with APPA design review and paying special attention to the new exterior material. Ms. Berraza, will defer to BLC on this one because it's in the Aberdeen historic. Can I add a, can I add a, can I add a, can I add a, please? Yes, please. That the developer maintains his commitment to 70% ownership. No, we can't, we can't address ownership. Well, so we trust that the developer will continue to be in touch with the neighborhood and meet their, their commitments. So the motion is, we can't have a provider calling on the developer to maintain their commitments. Maintain commitments. Okay. Is there a second? Thank you. All those in favor? Hi. Hi. Any opposed? Motion carries. Thank you very much. Madam Chair, it's now 10th party. I'm going to call the 1030 cases for any deferrals that would draw. Please share the address with me before you speak. Hi, this is Michael Chavez, 49. I'm just, I'm going to say 49 that, that's 49 a, the Linguad Street. Thank you for the record calling me away. 1 3 0 3 4 7 1 49 to 49 a, Linguad Street. Name an address for the record, please. Michael Chavez, 26, Elm Health Park, your Chester. And the architect and representative for Stephen Key's, the owner. Now you, what are you requesting? Deferral, this basically is just a clerical issue with the address. Okay. So everything, nothing else is changing on design or zoning or anything like that. So whenever we can get a few of this possible, when it sets up. And have a motion, please. Motion is a deferrer. Is there a second? I can do that. All those in favor? Hi. Hi. Any opposed? Motion carries. The date, please. We have the light 12 at 1130. Okay. Okay. And commend and share in the fourth. That was 1130. July 12th. Yes, 1130 on July 12th. Thank you. Are there any other deferrals or withdrawals for the 1030 cases? Do you give you the address first, please? There ain't none. I'll call the last case for 930 calling me away. 1 3 0 7 395 25 Godness. Three. This is a constructing new 14 unit multi family dwelling. The violation that 50 sex for 29. The lot of areas is patient at a go 50 sex for 29 the 1 day ratio is excessive. Article 50 sex for 29 the building and successive stories. Article 50 sex for 29 the building and successive and beat. Article 50 sex and 29 the usable spaces and sufficient. Article 50 sex for 29 the prep God is sufficient. Article 50 second 29 the side yard of the patient. Article 50 sex for 29 the ray out of the sufficient. Article 50 sex for 43 are street parking. Loading is insufficient. And I like the 50 sex for 44.3 the traffic visibility across the corner. Anyone that address the record please. Morning Madam Chair, members. Board, my name is George Morancy. I'm an attorney with business address 350 West Broadway in South Boston. I represent city real-feet management. Two enemies, Josh Federman from CRM and Tanya Carrier from Cal State Design project architects. Okay, let's hold on for a minute. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Ligress has recused himself. So this is a six member board and you will need five members to be in support for this to carry. The other thing I just need to put on the record is that this project is in ward 21. But it looks like the violations are cited for which is allston. And it looks like the violations that are cited for Roxbury because these are all Article 50 violations and not Article 51 violations. Thank you, Madam Chair. Understood on the six member board. We would choose to go forward. On the cited violations, I would defer to Mr. Brum as to the advertising requirement, legal advertising requirements. I think there's a problem here. So may I have a motion for the formal? So moved. Is there a second? For us a second. All those in favor? Aye. Aye. Opposed? Motion carries. May we have a date, please? We're going to have to do July 12th at 1130. Okay. And hopefully Mr. Marancy that gives you enough time to get a new refusal letter. Okay? Thank you. Thank you. See you then. Okay. On the first case for 1030, calling the OAA 132032 to 360 to marini and three. This is a change of art from a free family to a poor, univerenement dwelling and directly roofed act and new, where it is violation of Article 961, reconstruction, extension of an on-conforming building, Article 53, Section 8, a free family or a poor family use is conditional. Article 53, Section 9, excessive FAR, Article 53, Section 9, the number of a lot of the habitable stories has been exceeded. Article 53, Section 9, insufficient side-gathered setback, Article 53, Section 9, insufficient ray, out of setback. Article 53, Section 52, root structure, restrictions and access. Article 53, Section 56, R35, is insufficient. Article 53, Section 8, the use has been made in basement units, type of it. Article 17, type 5, Immağe Bas Assisted, IPAII. Any District Water� zur the headlines. P個人 Item Chair, Members of the Board, written schered blntz, make business address of 245 Sumner Street Vistia Boston, and behalf of preliminary participation artist, like wet eateres and no rents. Item Chair, I just jump onto the next slide and probably be able to do better contact. This is a pre-existing, three family dualing located in the lower Eagle Health Section of East Bas slices at 360 Tumb integrate we rent the Form Univator Center or so from the proposal would change the occupancy of the existing structure by adding habitable space in the lower level. It is identified as a basement because it is considered below the grade of Meridian Street. However, the grade separation between Meridian Street and the border street located directly behind it actually allows for, there's actually a sub basement under the level for which we're proposing occupancy. So this is a full walk out condition and not considered some grade. If we jump to the next slide, we probably have a little bit better perspective on this. Next slide please. I know we have some elevations that share the actual height. So we'll probably jump down a few more. As we're scrolling through this further down for the elevation, please. Here we go. Perfect. So the unit size is would all be generously sized about 1500 square feet total. These are all considered three better units. As you can see from the section plan of the elevation, the sailing height is about 9 feet 10 inches from the basement level to the first floor where grade is about two feet below the first level. The condition of the rear of the property where we are proposing rear decks and a stairwell that will access the proposed roof deck, as you can see, is a full walk out condition at that level because of the grade separation between Meridian Street and border street. The neighborhood is predominantly multifamily, even though this is- So a miscellaneous is at 50% above grade or more than 50%. More than 50% above grade. We have other elevations from the full side of the building as well. And is there two means of egress? There are. So you have the means of egress out of the rear of the building and then up, up the front as well. And tell us about that roof deck? The roof deck would be exclusive to the upper level. It is accessed by stairwell, not by headhouse. It is a three-story building, so we're not required to impose a headhouse. But we've agreed with the community to access by stairwell from the rear. By way of relief, we do require relief for the use. Again, mentioning that this was predominantly multifamily residential that area. This is on the edge of the two-up district. So a change from a three or four would be a substitute and not conforming use. Hence the conditional use being cited. We also require relief for the FAR increase because we are proposing to increase the little full space at that lower level. The rear decks actually do come within the setback however there's already existing conditions and the rear that are non-conforming as well. So we're requesting relief with respect to that. Our rear yard setback is required to be at 30 feet. It is already a non-conforming condition with the existing building. But we will be at 16.8 feet with the reconstructed rear decks. So variance is necessary as well. Last but not least in parking, there is no ability to access any portion of this property for the one additional off-street parking space that's required. So therefore requesting the variance even if we could have the curb crack that would be again detrimental to the surrounding area. Happy answering questions. How would the plans miss better? Madam Chair, the plans are adequate. Do you have a front elevation? I believe there should be in the east scroll forward. Rendering or at the elevation? An actual drawing elevation. It should be toward the end. That would be good to be kind of this line. I'm sorry. Let's scroll back. Where do you scroll back? I'm looking at my version as well. See what page would be on. I'm looking for a front elevation or a longing to note section. I apologize. I understood that would have been included in the package and looking at my packet. I do see the rear elevation. I'm sorry. This matters. Yeah, I sent over the full package that was submitted to ISD. So I apologize if that wasn't included. So can you probably tell us what the the height is from street level to the to the to the front of the building? Yes. So the grade at the front. Specifically, I'm sorry, specifically the height of the master bedroom on that first floor. Sure. So the grade of the building or the grade of the street at Meridian is. It goes from a minus two feet four inches. And the grade to the rear of the property is 14 feet four inches. That's with the sub basement as well. With that nine foot somewhere in between. The my understanding is the nine foot ten inches extends from both the front from the rear portion of the building all the way to the front. So the sloping grade I would assume is about probably has to about 50% close to that front of that building. Okay. In the meantime, well, well, the elevation I this is this is confusing to me. I'm sorry. Yeah, it's not it's not showing a sloping grade. Exactly. That's why I was looking for long long the two no section. So I'm showing you know the side elevation should show a slope from front to rear and it's not. Yeah, I apologize about the architect who submitted some of everything that would be required for the review. So let me just check and see if I have something else additional on my file. Well, that's different. Are you saying this is wrong? No, I'm saying the request list for a longitudinal elevation. I don't I don't see it. I'm looking at the file. You don't need to like this side elevation is showing a completely flat grade. Just scroll down just to see it's just the inch or so. Just go down. Yeah, right there. Oh, yeah. See that it's just a completely flat grade. Yeah, I understand. So what is I can request the art except provide that if the board chooses to prefer this I can ask the architect to provide the detail. I think we need more information Madam Chair. I'd like to make a motion. Okay, let's make a motion then. Is there a second? I like to take a motion of deferred. And there's a second all those in favor. Hi. And you post the date, please. July 26th at 1130. Can we go beyond that? Sir, I'm not. Yeah, we can go to August 9th. That works. And just to be clear, we're looking for a specific elevation that shows the grade from reading street down to the back of the property. Yes, a front elevation that was missing and a side elevation that shows the greater the slope or along or along a Juno section. Right. As a minimum, you do need that front elevation as well. Thank you. 11 be August 9th at 1130. Following the next case calling the OA129 557272 High Street. This is an addition of a new third floor bedroom bathroom as well as a new roof deck the violations article 62 section 25. Yeah, the roof structure restriction article 62 section 8 to build a high excessive. Maybe that's just for the record. I'm chairman and recuse myself in this matter. That's like this. Further so whoever the applicant is, this is a six member board. So you will need five members to be in support of it. So you can decide to go ahead. Oh, wait for a day when this is a full member board. Madam chair, we're going to go forward. This is Timothy Shan on the architect for the project. I'm at nine Wall Street in Charlestown. My clients. Is this owner occupied? Yes, it is. Okay. So please just go ahead and tell us what's being proposed. Okay, so this is an existing two family residents in a three F three families two thousand zone. My owner occupied our clients live in the upper unit of the two family and they just had a fourth child to come into the world. So they need more bedroom. So this building is three stories, but the back L section is only two. So like many other products in Charlestown, we'd like to add some more third floor mass. Basically, I don't know the bedroom for their new child. We've had a good news. What's tell us about the square footage of the proposed addition? Yeah, we're looking for 235 square feet. Okay, 235 square. Yes. So it's an unusually large lot of Charlestown. So it's not an F.A.R. violation unusually. And tell us about that roof deck. Yes, and we'd actually like to do a roof deck up on the main portion of the building. You know, not only L, but on the main three stories section of the building. And how is it going to be accessed through a new staircase in a hatch? This is an internal staircase. Yes, yes, yes. Okay. Okay. And it is only for the top floor. How are the plans miss better? I'm sure the plans are adequate. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak and support our opposition of this proposal? Good morning, Madam Jam. Members, my name is Yiminal Ash. We've from Senator Edwards office. Senator Edward would like to go on the record and support of this project. She has met with the owner and has not received any significant opposition. Thank you. Good morning, Madam Jam members of the board. I'm key and able to remove airs office neighborhood services. I'm the office of Senator Botters meeting for this proposal on February 28th. And any questions or concerns were addressed by the applicant at this time. Since then, the applicant has continued to work closely with the neighborhood. I have received 13 letters of support along with 18 signatures of support, including those from direct butters and boys and girls club. Most letters mentioned how they encouraged this proposal to support growing families in Charlottes Town. I did receive three letters of opposition, including two from direct butters. The opposition is mostly due to us, a view, National Land. Okay. Mr. Ambassador. Madam Chair, Secretary here. We do have those letters. The mayor's office spoke of support and opposition. Thank you. I'll start with Greg. And then go to Lee. Can you state your name and address for the record? Yeah, how you doing? Greg McCarthy. I'm directing next door at 74 High Street. I didn't have a chance to get a letter in, but I am in strong support of the project. It's not really a hindrance or an interference on. On property at all. Thank you. Mr. Ambassador, can we jump to. The answer to the call that is office. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning, Elaine. I've been for Councillor Colledes' office. We'd like to go into the fourth of this project. Thank you. Thank you. Welcome. Thank you. Good day, Portland. Once unmuted, can you state your name and address for the record, please? Yes. My name is Dave Horton. I live at 70 High Street. My wife is in the, we directly about the proposed construction. Briefly, I'm speaking in opposition. I think there are several other neighbors that submitted letters, but we may be the most impacted. We purchased our property about six years ago based on specific requirements, a lot of natural sunlight in view. We have about 1600 square feet. Most of it in a common living room that's going to be about 15 feet from the proposed construction. So we have view south and west from our room. A lot of natural sunlight, the construction would eliminate our view to the west and reduce the sunlight. So we feel the construction would significantly reduce the value of our property. We certainly would reduce the enjoyment of the property as we load those features we specifically sought out and purchased. We do have additional concerns about the roof deck. This is already the tallest structure on the block. If they're granted a variance to build up, I think every owner on the block will quite reasonably feel entitled to their own variance to build up. And at that point, I think the zoning code becomes pretty much pointless in the overall neighborhood would be changed for the worse as a result. Thank you. Can we get, can we hear from the next person? Yes, Jackie. I'm sending a request on New York. Once I'm muted, can you say the name and I just for the record? I have nothing for high street. Oh, okay. Thank you. You can even follow in your hands now. And I have no additional ways. Oh, Sean Riley. Are you looking to give testimony on this proposal? Sorry, I said just said the request on New York. Sean. Hi, Sean. Okay, I'll go to read. Are you looking to give testimony on this proposal? And after, after me, we will close comments. Okay. Mr. Ambassador. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. My name is Lee Eisman and I'm at 76 high street. I'm the butter to the butter. I'm the butter. And I am opposed mainly because of the dominoe theory that every neighbor on either side of us, including the immediate. Butters will ask to have extensions and roof decks and. Furthermore, the only at 70 to already has. And so the only thing that we can do is to have a support of about a quarter to three hundred square feet and five plus bedrooms. And they have an apartment, which they could take over. If they wanted to have even more space, but they are basically choosing to take light from their immediate butters so that they can enjoy it themselves. Thank you. And just for the record, I want everybody to know that the approval or the disapproval of what specific project or anything. And I would like to say that this is not set of precedent for this board. We look at each project on its own merits. So given that. And Mr. Ambassador, we've heard from everybody. May I have a motion please? Madam chair, I'd like to put forward a motion of approval with BPD design review, paying special attention to the size of the bridge deck. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries your set with that proviso. Thank you for your time, everybody. Following the next case, calling the LA 131042080 bunker hill street. This is a change of October to a family to a three family. The violation is out of the 62 section 29, or should be back with the division. Article 62 that section 62 dash 25 roof structure restricted. Article 62 section 8, and suspicion of additional law to area. Article 62, 68, excessive FAR. And Article 62 section 8, and suspicion of a set that name and address for the record please. Greg McCarthy for a heavy bunker hill street. Can you please go ahead and tell us what you're proposing to do? Sure. Yeah, so right now we have a two and a half story or 2.75 story to family. It's located in the Roehl House district to Charlestown. What we're proposing to make it a full triple decker. You would be taking a half story and making it a full story and adding one additional unit right now it's two units. One units on the first floor. The second unit is the second and third floor. We would be making the third floor its own additional unit. So now it's about the size of the proposed third floor unit. The proposed third floor unit would be 900 square feet. A little less than that. And what is it? A two bedroom. It's a three bedroom. Three bedroom. Okay. And then the other question is what is the proposed addition? How many square feet is the proposed addition? I'm assuming the front where they captured the space from the front room. It's about a 490 square foot addition. Okay. And is there a roof deck proposed in this? No. Is there any occupancy in the basement? No. Okay. How would the clients miss better? I'd upchair the plan to adequate. Any questions from the board? Is there anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? I'm Good morning, my name is Jack. And members of the board. I'm key on the table. It's in the mayor's office neighbor services. Our office will student of butter is meeting for this proposal on April 6th. We're starting to find the neighbors were addressed by the applicant at this time. In support was shown as well. I've since received one letter of opposition from the Charlottesown Preservation Society. The opposition is in regards to the architectural historical significance of the building, and the position of the organization living space and no second egress at this time of the two different to the board. Thank you. Man, I'm just a second. We have that letter of opposition. That's the only thing we have. Thank you. Okay. And I'm sure I do have one raised hand here. Is that accurate? One's on mute. Can you stay to me, manager for the record, please? Yeah, hi. My name is Zach Granacott. I'm the owner at 82 bunker health street, which is a direct about our next door. I'm not sure if you can see it's important. Thank you. And Jackie, I guess go ahead. Yes. I my brother, I'm the sector of the estate for 78 bunker health street. And I'm not opposed to it. I did have conversation with Greg. I think we can work it out together. Just on the backside roof line. Is my concern. Thanks. I'm not trying. I have no additional raised hands. Okay. May I have a motion, please? Madam Chair, I'd like to put a motion forward to approve of the proposal that existing front dormers should not be modified and that a zoning release should not be granted for the proposed or floor front bedroom and for BPA design review. I'm sorry. So the front dormer not modified. Second. And I think the second is for the last one. I'm sorry. Is only relieved. I'll be granted for the proposed dirt floor front bedroom and for the BPA design and to have BPA design review. I'm sorry. All those in favor. Thank you. Any opposed? Motion carries. Following the next. This is an installation of signs in the exterior of the new MGM musical along Ipswich and Lansdown Street. We've done a lot of boards and static graphic signs. The violation of that 11 out of 11 section seven electronic signs a condition of subject to approval. Article 66 section 41 sign regulations for the Benway neighborhood. Benway Triangle neighborhood development area. Name an address for the record please. I'm not a member of the board. I'm not a member of the board. I'm not a member of the board. I'm not a member of the board. I'm not a member of the board. I'm not a member of the board. I'm not a member of the board. I'm not a member of the board. I'm not a member of the board. I'm not a member of the board. I'm not a member of the board. I'm not a member of the board. I'm not a member of the board. I'm not a member of the board. I'm not a member of the board. I'm not a member of the board. I'm not a member of the board. I'm not a member of the board. I'm not a member of the board. I'm not a member of the board. I'm not a member of the board. I'm not a member of the board. I'm not a member of the board. I'm not a member of the board. I'm not a member of the board. I'm not a member of the board. I'm not a member of the board. I'm not a member of the board. I'm not a member of the board. I'm not a member of the board. I'm not a member of the board. I'm not a member of the board. I'm not a member of the board. I'm not a member of the board. I'm not a member of the board. I'm not a member of the board. I'm not a member of the board. I'm not a member of the board. I'm not a member of the board. I'm not a member of the board. I'm not a member of the board. I'm not a member of the board. I'm not a member of the board. I'm not a member of the board. I'm not a member of the board. I'm not a member of the board. I'm not a member of the board. I'm not a member of the board. I'm not a member of the board. I'm not a member of the board. I'm not a member of the board. I'm not a member of the board. I'm not a member of the board. I'm not a member of the board. I'm not a member of the board. I'm not a member of the board. I'm not a member of the board. I'm not a member of the board. I'm not a member of the board. I'm not a member of the board. I'm not a member of the board. I'm not a member of the board. I'm not a member of the board. I'm not a member of the board. I'm not a member of the board. I'm not a member of the board. I'm not a member of the board. I'm not a member of the board. I'm not a member of the board. I'm not a member of the board. I'm not a member of the board. I'm not a member of the board. I'm not a member of the board. I'm not a member of the board. I'm not a member of the board. I'm not a member of the board. I'm not a member of the board. I'm not a member of the board. I'm not a member of the board. I'm not a member of the board. I'm not a member of the board. I'm not a member of the board. I'm not a member of the board. I'm not a member of the board. I'm not a member of the board. I'm not a member of the board. I'm not a member of the board. I'm not a member of the board. I'm not a member of the board. I'm not a member of the board. I'm not a member of the board. I'm not a member of the board. I'm not a member of the board. I'm not a member of the board. I'm not a member of the board. I'm not a member of the board. I'm not a member of the board. I'm not a member of the board. I'm not a member of the board. I'm not a member of the board. Are those förets in favor of the board? Are those förets in favor of the board? Are thereinho residential and Abiatra uses? Are thereinho residential and Abiatra uses? There were there not within 150 feet of residential units that sits between electronic signage, assuming you meet all the special permit criteria, which we do. So they've been designed to meet the design requirements of section 11-7 of the code, including the citing, dimensional, and operational requirements. The applicant will be obtaining an annual license from the BPDA and will be paying the annual fee associated with that. And the team has undergone design review with the BPDA in accordance with the guidelines set out in section 5 of the code. Our final approval is pending issuance of this permit. And lastly, we did have a community meeting on this topic. The presentation was given to the community. Tell us, tell us, will this will be purely static signage? It will not have ads or anything else on it. There will be animations on the signs, but it's all intended to be on premise related to what's going on in theater at that time. And Jeff, I have a question for you. Does this meet signage requirement for the MGM logo? Yes, we've been doing design review on this. This was an article 80 project a little while ago, and this is the final component of that article 80 project. This actually did come before the board for your approval for the theater. And this is the final component. Yes, we've been doing design review. And actually, we'd like to go on record in support of this. OK. Any questions? How are the plans, Ms. Baraza? And I'm sure the plans are adequate. Any questions from the board? Will these be 24 hour signs? I know there are hours of operation limitations built into the code, and we will be complying with those. And for the record, can you put those on the record? What they are under the code, I can't know that. Hours of operation are limited to 7 a.m. from 7 a.m. to 2 a.m. That's under 11.7 slash 1d. Is anybody here to speak either and support our opposition at this proposal? Good morning Madam Chair and members of the board. I'm a member of the mayor's office and neighborhood services. At this time, our office would like to defer to the board's judgment on this matter. There was a community meeting on April 6, 2022 where the applicant presented this plan to neighbors and addressed their questions and concerns. I have received no emails letters to support our opposition to this, so at this time, I would like to defer to the board's judgment. Thank you. Madam Chair, I'd like to put forward a motion of approval. Does it need continuing BPDA design? It does. It does sound like it. Okay. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. You're all set. Good luck. Thank you Madam Chair. On your next case, calling the OA 1308 425, 1111 Harris and Avenue. This is the Benjamin Franklin Institute of Technology. Technical calls will be relocating to 1313 Harris and Avenue Roxbury. The project includes demolition of an existing bill that provides construction of a new three-story 68,000 square foot education bill. Subdivision of a possible to two lots, one lot of 24,527 square feet, and the second lot with the bill is to relocate it with 30,099 square feet. The violation is Article 50, Section 10. The call is used as conditional and Article 50, Section 11, the dimensional regulations in the Roxbury EBA area. A redidated, either the demographic I see you. I'm going to make you a panelist. Madam, you can just accept that. And yourself. And be honest. There's no closing dark with you all as well, Bill. No. No. No. All right. Thank you. Extrater Francis and Matt Kiefer and I. I'm glad you're coming. Yes. Thank you, Jessica. Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board. Matt Kiefer. I'm an attorney at Ghoulston and Stores. And my address is 7 Serena Road in Jamaica Plane. And I'm here on behalf of the Ben Franklin Institute of Technology. With me, as you just heard, is Dr. Paesha Francis, the president of Ben Franklin Institute, Marty Jones, development advisor to the school, and also Gail Sullivan from Studio G Architects. Should they be helpful in answering questions? Mr. Fortune, this is about the relocation of the school from their longtime home in the South and to Newbian Square, to a 68,000 square foot building in Newbian Square. The college actually began under the will of Ben Franklin and the building that they occupy in the South end is over 100 years old and really no longer suitable for the college's use. The college is an affordable urban college. So Mr. Kiefer, can you please go directly to the project itself and the violations? Okay. I'm happy to. The project is a three-story building, 68,000 square feet on a approximately 30,000 square foot parcel of land in Newbian Square. It's in an economic development area and consistent with the Roxbury Master Plan. It's also undergone large project review from the BPDA. It has had a pretty extensive review, including before the Roxbury Neighborhood Council and the Roxbury Strategic Master Plan Oversight Committee. That you can see from the floor plan here, the project would have a combination of classrooms, tech labs, and offices, student gathering spaces. It needs two pieces of zoning relief, Madam Chair, the use, the college use, and the accessory uses, the tech labs are all conditional uses in the Newbian Square economic development area. The college has programs from auto engineering, auto to opticianry and cybersecurity, and there are a series of labs inside the building as well as classrooms. So that's the first item of zoning relief. The second item is FAR. The building actually conforms to the height requirement in the district of 55 feet. It's slightly less than that, but it slightly exceeds the maximum FAR of 2.0. The FAR is about 2.26. Those are the two items of zoning relief we're requesting today. Okay, so, okay. Is there any parking proposed on site? There is no parking proposed on site. There is parking available in the neighborhood project. If you'll go to the Zoom out, Jessica, the Newbian Ascens, there's another slide that shows it in its location. Yeah, I feel scrolled up a little bit. There's ample on-street parking available, and we've also been in touch with the owner of Newbian Ascens that right there, future Newbian Ascens development right across the street. So will the, I guess my question to you, Councillor, is if there will be dedicated parking for beef it, and if they will be, if this, they need to be an ancillary parking permit, or I mean, because I just need to be clear that parking is not a violation as far as this project is concerned. That's incorrect. There is no parking violation as part of this project. In this district of street parking for projects that are subject to large project review, which this was, off street parking is determined as part of large project review. And through that process, we went through that process and were clear that there is no on-site parking proposed in connection with the project. So the off-site parking in the future, if there's an ancillary use for that, that's really, it will be obtained by the Newbian Ascens developer. Okay, and then I think what was my second question. What have the proposed hours of operation? Well, it's a school. I may ask Aisha, Dr. Francis to answer the question about after hours and weekend operation. Certainly, we are currently planning to have this end-starching. Dr. Francis, good to see you again. Hi, good to meet you, too. Can you please put your name and address on the record? Yes, Aisha Francis. I reside at 10 Draper Road in Hyde Park. Thank you, Chairwoman Raho. Okay. Good, the college operates from 7 a.m. until 10 p.m. currently. And we are, that's Monday through Friday, on occasion. We have weekend events, but we typically do not operate on the weekends and we plan to have the same schedule in our new location. Okay. And your tech labs will be used purely for your students. Then? That's correct. Yes. Yeah. Because this is a conditional use, so I just have to think through. And will any of these tech labs need specific venting or anything like that or is this tech labs because of the auto use and other things like that? I'm asking Gayle Sullivan, Studio G, to answer that question, Madam Chair. Thank you, Madam Chair. Gayle Sullivan, I reside at 56 Yale Terrace in Chimega Plain and my office Studio G Architects is also in Chimega Plain. But we have a variety of different labs and they have different mechanical and technical requirements. The first floor of rear is all automotive and we'll be doing, for instance, oil separation oil capture for that. There are specific venting requirements, both in the auto labs also in a couple of the other laboratories, all of which has been addressed with Cocentini, our mechanical electrical plumbing engineers. Okay. And then, so this, the purpose is very specific. It talks about the 30,000 plus square feet that go to beef it. Tell us about the 24, 525 square feet. What is the anticipated use longer term? Undetermined, Madam Chair. The short term use is for construction staging. And we long term use, but it could well be a resource for the college's expansion in the future, but we are not proposing any expansion today and did not propose any expansion in the article 80 process. So then what could be anticipate that should there be no longer term use is that once the building is constructed, that'll be open space? Well, for some period of time, it could be open space. Not that it's correct. Okay. How would the plans miss better? Madam Chair, the plans are adequate. I do have a question regarding the rear access to the car repair. Is the open space mainly for students, or do you see it as a kind of little park? And then has this been reviewed by BTD? Yes, to both. And we do envision it also as sort of an open space. And it has been reviewed by BTD, we're in the process of finalizing a transportation access plan agreement with BTD concerning that space. And is it being used, who's it for, that space and the rear? Well, it's primarily for the school. It is a way to get cars cannon out of the shop, of the lab. It's not like going in and out of a parking garage. Those movements are much rarer, but it's also envisioned as an open space plaza for students together. It will be open to the public during hours that the schools and operation. And then can you also comment on the sustainability, sustainability measurements? We are targeting the gold for the building. That's it, thank you. Yes, thank you. Will there be any solar panels or anything like that? Okay, how could you answer that? I'm happy to. Yes, Madam Chairwoman, we've actually got, if Jessica, if you can, scroll down. We have a roof plan and site plan combination after the floor plans. That might be there. Thank you, right? You just passed it right there. Not the thank you slide. The one above, thanks right there. So a little hard to see. It's shown in white boxes here. There are three large arrays. There are all number seven on this plan. Those are the photovoltaic solar electric panels. And then within that, what's Marcus number eight, which is worth mentioning, our labs, there'll be a live rooftop laboratories here for HVAC students who will have real time equipment to work on the roof, but also for all of the other students. And perhaps access to the photovoltaic panels. So we're looking to use the building systems as much as possible as learning opportunities for students who are learning among other things, construction trades. Okay, thank you. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak and support at this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the board, this is Jason Gant from the Mayor's Office and Neighborhood Services. While we will not be making a formal decision on this matter, we do want to defer this to the board and also highlight the fact that we have not gotten any new letters of support in our opposition for this project. Thank you. Learning, Madam Chair, members of the board, and I call that on from Council President Slings Office. The councilor would like to go on record in support of this proposal, the original locator in the South and in District two, Benjamin Franklin has been planning to relocate to nobians point to how the expanding continued regional services. Over the past year, they had with Roxbury residents and organizations about their plans and has gathered support from the neighborhood. The proposal project will be not by vacant sites and activate the important corner of Arizona and Ures three and add to the economic vitality of nobians point with their staff and students. They will be PVA, Bowray, and Onions merely to approve the project in December of 2021 and I hope next CVA will approve this as well. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning, Madam. This is Elaine from Council President Slings Office. I have a lot of from Council President. Dear Madam Chair and members of the Boston zoning board of appeals, I am ready to support the Benjamin Franklin Institute of Technology, be fit moving into moving to care. This is to have long served a diverse student population and their relocation into the heart of Roxbury has potential to help serve as an educational hub for the community and the economic anchor for many local businesses at large. Moving forward. So thank you, Lu, not to cut you short, but we do have other raised hands. No, we appreciate it. And go on, Madam. Good morning. Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board, my name is Paris, I represent in the Carpenters Union. On behalf of hundreds of union Carpenters, the lemon work process in Boston want to go and recognize support. Thank you. Thank you. No additional raised hands at the moment. And we have letters and support that are for you. No matter Chair, we do not. Oh, I, yeah, I have seen some letters and support from the the only one we have is the flip. So we can submit a member fortune. I'm not sure why they didn't get you, but we also have letters to support from Representative John Santiago from Betty Tony of the Roxbury neighborhood council and from Norm Stembridge who chair at the IAG. And it's also on the strategic master plan oversight committee. We'll make sure and get those to you. Yeah, they could be, they could be in an email form that just gets at the folder. Right. Thank you. Okay, given that information, may I have a motion, please? Madam Chair, I'd like to, Madam Chair, I'd like to just say that this is a real great project. It's a great anchor institution for the community. I want to applaud the project. In terms of community space, I just wanted to put it on the record that when you're dealing with auto repair, there's this kind of culture of gathering and I just want the applicant to be careful with the design of the public space in terms of whether it's a community asset or whether it's a place for students. With that said, I would like to put forward a motion of approval. And do we need continued design review? Yeah. Yes, I do think so. I like the design. Yeah, because I think what happens here is that, and I have to admit that my office was not too far from this project. In the century, you could look at the real window at the project. And there's the old fire station there that has been converted by HBI. And then there is also that development that's at the corner of Melnia and Harrison that we've also approved. And so there's like a new context that's going up for that corner. And so I do think there is an opportunity for making it right for the neighborhood. I agree with you. I think the design would be the overview of it as a campus because there's several projects that are contributing to it. I think more of the urban design, but less so the particularities of the exterior. And Madam Chair, if I could just say we will be set to our point. Hold on, Councillor, we, you know, it's hard when everybody has a mic, but the board is in discussion. So there's a motion. There's a second by Mr. Regiro for design review. All those in favor? Any opposed? Motion carries. And I too would like to echo this better on the potential value of this project to the community. So good luck. Thank you very much. Thank you. Madam Chair, that worked out well. You brought us right into the 11th, the review, the special spending deferrals with trials. Please give me the address first. 221 East Eagle Street, Mr. Secretary. Thank you, Mr. Liz. We got in BOA 1256992 221 East Eagle Street, name and address for the record plate. Good morning, again, Madam Chair, members of the board, Richard Lins, business address 245 Summary Street, East Boston on behalf of the petitioner of Olay, Capitol. I may have a motion for deferral. Motion for deferral. Is there a second? Or is there a second? All those in favor? Hi. Any opposed? Motion carries. The date, please. We'll have a date of July 26th at 1130. I'm going to, again, Mr. Secretary, I'm not available. You shall be patient. Oh, OK. So we can do August 9th. August 9th. I'm not good. And may I just, I know on this particular case, board member, leaders and board member, Regiro, typically, recuse themselves. Is it possible to see if we could get this on a date when we have a full seven-member board that seems to be the issue with this particular problem? We might be into 2023 on that one, probably. Mr. Lakers, will you be sitting on the 9th? August 9th? I do intend to sit on that. OK, so let's do it for a later date in August. For the next two seconds. We'll do August 23rd. OK. I will not be here on August 23rd. August 23rd at 1130 is the lucky number. Thank you very much and have a great day. So are there any other deferrals with brawls for the 1130 rediscussions? Yes, Mr. Secretary, 19 Grenada Park. Thank you very much. Regarding BOA 1178769, 69 19 Grenada Park. Name and address for the record, please. Good morning, Madam Chair, Mr. Secretary, Attorney Nick Zazula, McDermott, Quilty and Miller, 28 State Street and Boston, asking for a withdrawal of this application, please. Yeah, I'll make the motion for the NIL without prejudice. Back in. All those in favor? Aye. Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Thank you. Are there any other deferrals who would travel to the 1130 rediscussions? Hearing none, Madam Chair, I'm going to go to the subcommittee. We met on Thursday, May 19, 2022 at 5 PM, down to 1010 MSAV. These are the hearing. Case BOA 1266216134 Wortswood Street was adding more rural traditional kids who was approved with BPDA. Case BOA 131017223 Commonwealth Avenue was a change of argument for five unit drawing to a one unit and 870 square feet approved act. It was approved. Case BOA 12806379 Denison Street was denied without prejudice, was no shout. Case BOA 1270602, 10 Johnson Road was dependent on the portion of the basement and accommodate an office in the recreational space. It was approved with no basement, no bedroom, and the basement. Case BOA 127942116 Hopkins Street was a convert one family home to a two family. It was approved with no bedrooms in the basement. Case BOA 128049438 Summers Street was built up the back of the house at two levels for a floor kitchen bathroom, two bedrooms. It was approved with BPDA. Case BOA 1263217996 The 998 River Street it was a car port with some Mance Lab. It was approved with BPDA. Case BOA 1281382 27 Wintmore Street is construction of a sunroom addition that was approved with BPDA. Case BOA 128567515 Montville Street was an additional parking space and this is driveway and just a fair pat. It was approved with a 10 to 12 per per pat BPD review. Case BOA 12619581559 Dunvoy Street is being heard today at 1130. And on the redistation case BOA 127, 721343 PST was a change art from a one to a two family, but in addition it was approved with BPDA. That includes the subcommittee report. I'd like to make a motion or accept the recommendations of the subcommittee. Thank you. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Let's take a 10 minute break. We'll, we can be at 1145. And we'll, and we will proceed. Thank you. You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You Mr. Fortune, let's, let's go ahead with 1030. We'll do about it, Chair. Call in the next case. Call in the OA 1260823761. This is a proposal. One, O3 5, need existing three family drawing and relocate, confirmed that. It's directly in high-conquered. Violation. 10, section one, O3 5, need to not be located less than 5 feet from the side of the outline. Article 55, section 40, O3 5, need loading. And out of 55, section 90, need to walk the spaces insufficiently. We can add rest to the right. Why haven't speed off, but you make a plan. I do have a hand. I sent a request on your US. Sarah. I'm going to have to go ahead and do that. Yes. Hi, you should be able to hear. Hi, great. So my name is Sarah Ewing. I'm one of the residents here at 76 Wyman and the applicant for this project. Overall, it's a simple relocation of a curb cut and existing curb cut from one side of the property to the other side, which would allow for the construction of a parking pad for unit one. That's that's my unit. Currently where the existing curb cut is doesn't allow for enough space for any usable space for a parking pad or anything and actually has more of a hindrance for on street parking because a lot of people will not park in front of that curb cut. So we'd like to relocate it to the other side to allow for off street parking for our unit. So this is how many, how many units on this building? Three units. We're on the first floor. Okay. And again, so this would be a new, a new curb cut on the other side of the building. Yeah, how would the app or how we the application was is really a relocation because we do have curb cut already in existence on the other side. But yes, it would be a new curb cut cut in on the left hand slide here. Has this address been before this board before? I'm not since I lived in the property, which was starting in April last year. And not for this, this project outside of the butter's meetings that have already occurred. Okay. So you know, there's something that we need to just inform you that generally this board is not in support of parking that is proposed to where the car could potentially work into the front yard, be in the front yard. So I'll just put that out there. How would the plans miss better? Any questions from the board? It does. It's hard to tell, but it looks like it would not be front yard parking it. It would be roughly even with the front of the house, but. But it's just been a sale of the question replacing one on street. Madam, is the Domingo spoken on this? I believe he's on. Mr. Domingo, can you chime in please? Madam Chair Lady and members of the board, Bob Domingo, positive transportation. I notice there's a relocation of curb cut, but the old curb cut was grandfathered in first of all. If we're not really supportive of a curb cut being put in place to take a parking space off the street, and I understand there's one there now, but that was put there long ago. And secondly, in my opinion, I think it's be considered front yard parking because it's extremely close. I think it would fall under the category of front yard parking. So representing the BTV, I'd like to go in the opinion of to be opposed to this request. Thank you. I'm just looking at Google Maps. This curb cut is going to be extended, so it's going to be like a football properties. I'm just trying to figure it out. I can answer that. So right now our neighbor has a curb cut. So that's where you're seeing the 9.8 size to the left of the proposal. Most likely just because the curb cuts would be so close together, it would seem like a double curb cut in terms of the overall 21 feet. It is not a connection to that, but, but frankly, all along the street, there are similar parking pads. It's similar kind of front yard parking in a sense. So from that perspective, it would be kind of an extension of an existing curb cut, but again, a relocation from the other side. I just have a question. I'm looking at the Google Maps as well as Mr. Ejero's just looking at. But if I'm looking at the house and I'm looking to the right of it, there's no way you're parking your vehicle or anybody's parking the vehicle on the right hand side. Are they correct? You cannot fit anything on the right hand side. And I would like to emphasize that often people on the street will not park in front of that because they think it's a curb cut and they think they'll be towed. So we often lose on street parking because people won't park in front of that if one of the owners is not there. So you're absolutely correct. You cannot park on the right hand side of the property. Thank you. So let's just have everybody. Is anybody here to speak and support our in opposition? Yes, I'm sorry. Madam chair members and board partner and we move the mayor's office with services. I would like to defer judgment to the board. This advocate did go before the to make a plain neighborhood council and receive their support. Madam, we should I do have one way to hand on another spot. Bob, Bob, you all said you have to give any testimony here. Hi, Bob, and you go. Yes, I like to request an aisle only because there is parking on their side. And when you have a parking curb cut for the place for one space, it's almost like private parking and we don't usually support that. The front yard parking might be available, but I still think it is. And that's why I like to go on the record is requesting denial. Madam chair, can I can I ask a question? All done. Miss Miss ambassador, any other raised hands? No, I have no additional reason. Okay, go ahead, Miss better. Is there a way that we can ask the applicant to the existing curb cut to repair that one close off to allow for the off street parking? I have a question about the property. That she would then. So that then she can put a curb cut in the other side. So to close one, but to open the other. And so there's an equal gain. Well, actually, I'm not looking at the. The body property was looking at. Talking about her property. She has an existing curb cut that is not really functional. To the right of her property, I'm suggesting to close that so that you can have an off street parking. But to open it where there is room. Okay, on the right side. Yes, I know. Okay, I see. Yeah, so there's a win-win situation for both. And yeah, and I want to ask the applicant, have you spoken to your butter about cross easement? So you could share that. Part of that co cut. You mean on the left hand side here? Yeah. Yeah, so. Yeah. Sorry. No, that's okay. So right now there is it's hard to see on these surveys, but there is a thin line with garden. And there's actually on his side of the property. So there is a way where it would be a separate curb cut. It's not adjoining with their curb cut. So you can see on the plans there is an actual additional kind of one of those marble corners there. And I would like to make the note that the plan was always to fill that right hand side curb cut. So definitely agree with that proposal. So Miss Amasa, can you mute everybody just so that the board is can have their discussion? I mean, I think there's a way to do this to minimize the impact. And here's our motion, please. So I'll make a motion to approve with design review and BTD review to minimize the curb cuts. Okay. I'm going to pass on design review on this one because the BTD is going to look at it. We don't need to look at it. Okay. Just somebody to look at it to minimize the impact of the three. Is there a second? A second I have motion, Likris. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. You're all set, but that provides a good luck. Going next. Going next. Going next case. Going BOA 132929127 Washington Street. This is an existing two family in chapel building renovated to three resident units. Violations article 50 section 29, the usable space and sufficient. Article 50 section 43, Oste talking is insufficient. And Article 50 section 29, the additional lot areas and sufficient name and address for the record. Yes. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. This is Andrew Lichfield, and 22 alpha road indoor Chester. So I can jump right into it, but what we're looking at is a existing building that has two residential units with a first floor. What was a residential unit, but was turned into a chapel 20 or 30 years ago. And our proposal is to renovate the existing building and turn them into three residential units. So tell us about the residential units. What is the square footage? Yes. So the square footage is going to be the all going to be three bedroom two bathroom units. Unit one is going to be 1460 square feet. Unit two is 1130 square feet. And unit three is 1250 square feet. Any roof deck proposed or anything? No, there's no roof deck proposed. It's a pitch droof. So we're basically, you know, no exterior work is being done besides painting and replacing windows. So there's all internal use, okay? Yes, Madam Chair. How are the plans in this better? Madam Chair, the plans are adequate. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak and support of this proposal? But after you know Madam Chair, members of the board, Denise Santos from the mayor's office of neighborhood services. I would like to go on record and state that the applicant has met with the director of the butters and also the community, the civic association for this area. They have support from the association at this time. We would like to defer any judgments to the board. Thank you. Madam Chair, I have no way of saying at the moment. We may have a motion. Let's see. BPD a. Jeff, do you want to go on the record? Thank you, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Jeff had to be PDA. We recommended that it be central landmarks. I'm not now looking at it. I'm not even sure that that's really going to be the threshold over there. If it's only painting in windows, so straight, straight approval will be fine with us. Okay. May I have a motion, please? All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? I'll go if you can carry. You're all set. Good luck. Thank you all. This is calling next case. Calling B.O.A. 117-417-01677-1679. Go, Chester Avenue. This is a change of October with three family to a three family in office and construct 830 square feet of addition. This is an addition to Article 65, Section 32. This is in the name of the district review required. Article 65, Section 41, on street parking and loading. Article 65, Section 8. Our issues have been in the 3FD 3000 sub-district. And Article 65, Section 9, front yard and sufficient. And Article 65, Section 9, side yard is insufficient. Name and address of the record, please. Okay. My name is Thurine Ferd and I am the owner of the property number 16771679. I'm just an Adam Ray. Are you representing yourself? Yes. Okay. Have you seen the BPDA recommendation? Yes. You are. But after I discuss with my architect company, they say that they done all the research and we comply. I would verify the properties in the neighborhood so I don't see any problem with that. And why don't you just tell us what you're proposing to do then? Because we have a standard family. I have parents live with me and have two young children and I currently work in from home. So I need a space for myself because I currently work in the kitchen table. And so I will live there. I will work there and that is this will be my life. So appearing to me is very important. I like to make it beautiful for me where I live. So can you backtrack? So this is a three-family unit, right? Yes. It's a legal three-family. Is there any occupancy in the basement? No. No. And which unit do you live in? On the first floor. You live in the first floor unit. Have you explored building your office in the basement? I look at that and I don't have a light because we live on the ground. And I look around the neighborhood. I think look at my architect, Pocosal. He has many planes that mainly properties in the area that have no setback. But he said that your property will be beautiful. We will be staying out because we have the beautiful face and you have the top roof for you to do. So where are you proposing the addition from the first to the top floor or just on the first floor? No, only on the first floor to the street level. Okay. How are the plans, Ms. Subbettor? Madam Chair, the plans are adequate. Any questions from the board? Is there an elevation or a rendering? So it's just extending the front. Okay. And this is a three F, a three family district, which is a three F D, which kind of needs, which recognizes the triple decor general sense of the street. And I would just give some context. The topology is similar, but the difference is that there is a spacious front setback with these kind of commercial front. The issue here is that it's going all the way to the property line. And also the uses for bin. And this is. This one block. All the houses are very, very, very similar. I get it. You know, the question is, you know, do we help get it back to the 3D or the three family scene? Or do we continue it in the way that it is? Is anybody here to speak and support our in opposition of this proposal? I actually have 14. Maybe hold on hold on. I'm not just, you know, please wait until we call on you. Okay. Is anybody here to speak and support our in opposition? Yes. Good afternoon, Madam Chair. I'm so bored. George win with the mayor's office and the new but services are also hosted in the butter's meeting for the project on November 9th last year. There were no concerns there. However, the applicant was unable to answer technical questions at the St Mark's Area Civic Association leading to a letter of opposition from them. We received letters of support at this time. Our office would like to defer judgment to the board. Thank you. Madam Chair, Secretary, we do have those letters and they is obviously supporting. And I have always been with them all. Thank you. Mr. Hampton. Thank you, Madam Chair. I'm just bored. Jeff. Hampton BDA. The front yard addition just completely changes everything on that block. It's not a big walk to begin with and it's all residential. But the addition is completely inappropriate for that residential zoning district. So we're on record. It's a denial. Thank you. Okay. May I have a motion please? I'm sorry. All those in favor? Are you opposed? Motion carries. I'm sorry. Your project has been denied. Good luck. On the next case, calling the OA129-8430-717-721-American Legion Highway. This is the cannabis establishment. Medical marijuana dispensary. Recreational marijuana retail dispensary. Marijuana cultivator and marijuana product manufacturer erecting 8,900 square foot. One to two story building. Violations article 29. Section four, the green belt protection overlay district. Article 67, Section 11. Cannabis establishment is conditional use in a CC one sub district. I'm going to address for the record please. Oh, Madam Chair and members of the board. This is Mike Ross from the Law for a Prince of Bell with a business address. Sorry, Councillor. I'm sorry to interrupt. Madam Chair, I'm going to have to recuse myself on this matter as well. Okay. So this is Mr. Ligress has recused himself. Okay. So, Councillor, you need five of the six members in support of your proposal. We will proceed, Madam Chair. Okay. I'm also here with my client, Josh Silver of Silver Therapeutics. This proposal should look extremely familiar to the board. It was approved by the board January 17th, 2020. The reason why we're here is because during construction, the structure became very compromised and needed to come down. And with it effectively remove the entitlement we received from the zoning board. So we are now back here with an ERT permit seeking to re-approved the exact project that you saw as before. Just to refresh your recollection, as the secretary mentioned, this is a cannabis establishment that will have medical retail, adult use, cultivation and product manufacturing on site. Slide five is Jessica's a good slide to kind of start with. This is the site plan that I can just walk you through kind of the program. It's actually the next one. There you go. That's good. Yes, Madam Chair? So please talk us through it. Yes. So what you see here is the facility with 19 parking spaces on a large lot of 20,000 square feet. The facility itself, as mentioned, is just almost 9,000 square feet with a retail floor of around 1900 square feet, 12 point of sale stations, as well as a cultivation small cultivation site intended to teach folks how to grow from the Boston area of approximately 25,000 square feet. If you go to slide six, just the next slide. There's a good floor plan. It is two floors with a basement, but the main floor is that middle, you know, first floor where the activity occurs. As you can see on the left, kind of back left there, upper left of your screen, there's a man trap to enter the facility. There will be a security person at that man trap location in the main entrance. You can just scroll up just a teeny bit. And then security wall or ID check will also occur at the point of sale stations, as you see, in kind of the center area of the floor plan. What's the cultivation in a green house on the right hand side? Yeah, you're remembering the greenhouse downstairs up. You go up a bit. If you just just get that it's that rectangle that unimpeded rectangle that's 2,500 square feet where the cultivation will occur. That has its own separate entrance for employees only. You can see there's a side entrance on the side of the building on the right hand side of your screen. And then there's also an employee only entrance at the bottom of your screen really at the front of the building. The entrance to this facility is in the rear. So there's no queuing or anything like that in terms of the retail. But the cultivation everyone who's going to be going there that will be people who are credentialed to enter the facility for strictly the cultivation. There's also 34 cameras on the inside of the facility with eight cameras on the outside. Here you're seeing an elevation that red barn like structure is really the original structure being rebuilt. And then the gray is really the really all new construction for the rest of the facility at this point. It's all new construction, but that red barn is still similar almost identical in original dimensions, if you will. The only other thing I would add is that the hours of operations are 9 to 8 Monday through Saturday, Sunday 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. We're anticipating around 10 employees per shift. And I can pause their madam chair and answer any questions. And so is the footprint the same as it was in the previous application or hasn't changed in any way? It is it is the same madam chair. Exactly the same. How are the plans must better? Madam chair the plans are adequate. Any questions from the board? Not that it matters. I'm just a little confused. If it's if it's the same plan, same footprint because the building was compromised, why are you back? It's a hard lesson in construction. But once they knock down the structure that's there, there's nothing to retain the rights, if you will, of the entitlement that we received from the zoning board of appeal. There's nothing left. When you keep something up and it's an ALT permit, you still have those rights. So, it's not just taken down, it's it's some you know, there are ways to handle it. But in this case, it wasn't handled. It was kind of an emergency situation. They had to take it down. So we had to go back through the process. So you don't have that to your window that most most people have? Yeah, I mean, we're going to reset it now. We would reset it because of that. There are some other things we had to do. So, really, the biggest hurdle was just the waiting to get back here in front of the board and do this again. Is anybody here to speak and support our in opposition of this proposal? It's better to check out the board. The corner and the mayor's office neighborhood services. It's time we defer judgements to board. The office neighborhood services ran a community process for this proposal back in 2019 under a different instrument. They worked on a number of issues with the neighborhood and the host community agreement with the city. Since then, our office is unaware of any recent concerns raised by the butters or neighbors. That would defer to the board. Thank you. And, BJ Gohack? I mean, you know, so I'm going to just your for city office. We would like to go on record and support of this project. Thank you. I just want to make sure I hand it you all back. Yes, I'm okay. All right. Thank you. Yep. I sent to request to unmute you. Can you say can you name an address for the record please? Yes, it's Rick Eodor 180 Mont hope street. Rosendale Massachusetts. I'm a co chair of Mont hope canabra neighborhood. Two and a half years ago, we met with the silver representative from silver therapeutics. A number of community neighborhood meetings. We discussed some compromises to the plan and there were this different opinions on supporting or not supporting. So we took an online vote of the membership to get a larger vote count. We counted by the count was tabulated by Councillor Andrea Campbell's office and a large majority voted in support. We support monopodes side of the ballot. The other side of the ballot was opposed. Thank you. Okay. Mr. Bastel that covers everybody. Yes, ma'am. Thank you. May I have a motion please? I'll make a move. We'll prove a BPD a the dining area of nature. And to this petitioner only. You know, only we did already get the BPD a designer just just a matter. It's just is there a second? I don't know. Also the other proviso. Oh, sorry. Go ahead, Miss better to have a review with the parks recreation department. Yes, because it's a G car. Okay. Do you have that? Yeah. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Jurelle set with those provisos. Good luck. Thank you. Calling the next case. Following the OA 1308846784. This is constructed two story addition to the side of an existing one family that's dwelling. The first floor at master suite on the second floor. The minor layout reconfiguration of the second floor of the existing home. Violation article 57 section 9. In submission. Very out of setback. Maybe not just to the record. Hi, Jessica. You here for this case? I'm not. I'm muted as well. Not yet. I'm not. Please go ahead. I'm sorry. It's Derek Rubinoff from Derek Rubinoff architect at 82 spring street in West Roxbury. But I'm not back. The goal should be unmuted as well. She's going to present from our office. Hi, can you hear me? Yeah. Just a unit. I address. I'm not pleased. Okay. And I'll be back. Now. Spring street. We're sorry. So please go ahead and tell us what's being proposed. Sure. It's a single house in. Wasn't there and we actually demolishing one story addition on the side of the house and instead putting a two story addition. So we are violating the door. Sorry. So as you stay on the sheet of the code sheet, it will very helpful to see what we're doing. I should go one more sheet down. So basically you're building your proposal is contextual from what I see from the drawing from the about to the about. Yes. So if you'll see on these existing street view and a proposal. We're demolishing the side addition. One story side addition and proposing to story addition. So it's. And the violation is your rear yard setback. What is required and what's being proposed? Okay. So if you go to the next sheet. And if you're on the side. Actually, you'll see where it's a corner lot. If you scroll down a little bit. And stay on the area pan. Just a little bit down. Okay. Perfect. No, go down. Go up again. Sorry. Yeah, just stay there. Thank you. Okay. So the. The. On the left. On the left. We're proposing an addition with rear deck. The addition is. Pretty much the same footprint of as the previous. It's same length. It's about 26 feet. And the actual depth to the rear yard is less as this was before. So before it was almost aligned with the existing house. It's about 16. About 16. So definitely a hardship and the red line that is crossing the middle of the building. Is literally our rear setback that is. Is shallower than the required. Let me ask the question again. What is required and what's most. Required to have. I'm just going to interrupt for a second. I'm sorry. It's not moving off. The required setback is 23 feet and what's proposed. Looks to be from what I can see on the screen there. It looks about 18 feet or so. Is that right or not? 16 feet. Yeah. 16. Okay. Sorry. The description. Yeah, 13 is the existing building. Yeah, so we're actually reducing the non-conformity with this with the proposed addition. And the driveways continue to be on the west rock. So we're going to do that in the next three part. Yeah, take a quick. It has just been our changes to the driveway. Okay. How are the plans much better. At the prince or adequate. Any questions from the board. Is anybody here to speak in support of this report. More or not. Good afternoon, Madam Chair. My name is to you. I'm a student in office. We conducted a meeting for this project. And they did reach out to the WN at greater Belgrade AdNegra associations. And I was received four letters of support for this project. And the meeting was conducted on April 13th. We elected the third to the board. Madam Chair, secondary, we have a few letters of support. May I have a motion, please? Madam Chair, I'd like to put forth a motion of approval with BPD-8 design review and exterior. Is there a second? Secondary. All those in favor? Aye. Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. You're all set with that proviso. Thank you. Yeah. Following next case, following the BOA 131028119 Haber Road. It's confirmed, Arthur's a one family. It's going to be including extension of a raised patio and deck, an additional ground level deck that stands. The Violation's Article 67 section 9, the side yacht of the submission, Article 67 section 9, the Rhea is insufficient. Name and address for the record, please. Madam Chair, one more recusal for me on this. Oh my goodness, you're on a roll today. Okay. Please name and address from the applicant. One. Where is your Roberts? Hello, can you hear me? Yes. Okay. My name is Bereser Roberts. I am the owner and occupant of 19 Arbor Road in Rosendale. So tell us what's being proposed. Sure. So I guess you're looking kind of at the bird's eye view plans right there. We currently have an existing what's called the upper level deck, which is right in the backyard of our home due to the greater. It's first level, but in the back it's kind of elevated. So what we're proposing is to extend that across the back of the house to have a new exit, which is from the center there that you can see in the middle. And there's essentially what we would like to construct as a ground level deck. And that is the setback issue that says lower deck. You can see in kind of the bottom left there. So is this this 19 Arbor Road hit on the commuter rail? It does. It's our rear better. Yes. Okay. So on the side yard, what's required and what are you proposing? So I believe it looks like this setback and to tell you there's actually already a structure there and planting. So I believe we are kind of keeping the same side yard setback, which are on seven and a half feet. And I'm sorry. I am the owner and I actually did not get the exact setback from the architect. I've heard come to the meeting so I apologize for being unprepared regarding that with the requirement is that essentially it will be kept. Or proposing something that's seven and a half feet from the side. Okay. How the plans must better? I'm sure the plan is adequate. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak and support us about those? After I met with Jim, I was the board and I didn't speak for no two. The mayor's office of making services be conducted a meeting on April 11th for this project. And now, as I've received no letters of support for opposition. We did have one neighbor who attended that meeting. They did seem to be useful for it. We just didn't receive any statements from them. And we left it for to the board. Thank you. There's some master. Anybody else with a raised hand? I'm Kim and I'm going to go ahead. I'm Kim and the board. Paul Solman, you come to my family. I'm glad he comes to go right in support. I have no additional raised hands. May I have a motion, please? I'm out of chair, I'd like to put for a motion of approval with the PDA design review. Yeah, it's better if that's okay because the back's up to the commuter rail will punt on that one too. I don't think they can. I don't think they're going to mind flying by. Okay. Sounds good. We're getting PDA. We're here. It's there. Second. Paul, favor. Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries are all set. Good luck. Thank you very much. On the last case for 1030, calling the OA 129 201630 R Undying Road. This is the Gipid Cat shelter. The post project is a new 3650 square foot one story building to place existing 1550 square foot building. This is that 200 square feet. 200 square feet of an celery sheds 12 new Audrey packing spaces. The new stormwater recharge system violation of the 51 section eight. Using regulations animal hospital, catering, kennel, a warning animal shelter uses the bin. An article 51 section eight accessory uses from to the main use of this event. Amen. Address for the record. Good morning, Madam Chair. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Good afternoon to the rest of the board. My name is Jeff Ruchio. I'm an attorney at Maryone, Sean O'See, and Udy. Our business address is at two battery march park in Quincy. We are here. The shelter is here. Really solely asked to use. Specifically, we're seeking a variance to expand a legally existing nonconforming use. That would be a cat shelter. We're looking at a lot of different types of data. We're looking at the data. And that use has previously been confirmed by this board as a legally nonconforming use. I would please ask that Lisa Cicetti, the given panelist status or unmuted. We plan to have her speak first, but while that's being taken care of, we can have. Billy Mitchell speak. He's going to be honest. I'm not going to say that this is a one F five thousand district. Can you talk about the residential use that appears to be in the front of the building. And the proposal for the expansion of the cat shelter in the rear of the building. Tell us if it's all on the same lot or if it's two separate lots. I understand it to be all on the same lot. So, in terms of the residential structure in front, it is a residential structure. And as I understand it currently, run to doubt the tenants. Okay. So, if it's all on the same log, how are you protecting the tenant use from this expanded commercial use in the rear yard? The tenants space is not being infringed upon. And there is no objection from the tenants if you would like supporting letters from the tenants. I'm not interested. We have to look at it from a long term use. And because we understand that once we give approval for a project, it's here essentially in opportunity and are until the building something happens to the building. So, what we need to understand is that this is a one family zone. There is a one family house that's existing on it that looks like it could use some help, some upgrades in some way. They will be impacted by a commercial use in the rear yard. And so, we need to understand how this use will be compatible with not only that residential use, but the a budding residential uses in this residential sub district. I understand. And I think before turning things over to Mr. Mitchell to give you a bird's eye view of the product, which will help answer some of your questions, I think it's important to understand the history here. Well, we want to go directly to the use because this looks like it's an expansion of the use from 1,550 square feet to 3,650 square feet. So, that's close to a doubling of use and plus ancillary sheds and street parking. So, just please talk to us about everything together so we can understand how those residential uses and the a budding residential uses will be protected. And of course, tell us about this shelter. Oh, of course. I guess what I'm trying to say is a picture is worth a thousand words. I think what will best answer your question is to run through what some project renderings. And that will show you how little an impact, excuse me, how there's only a positive impact on the neighbors outside the law as well as on the residential structure that is on the lot. So, with that, I would turn things over to Billy Mitchell. He is a member of the firm serving as our owners project manager. Good afternoon. My name is Billy Mitchell. I am a member of the owners project management group that is assistant get rid of this project with the business address, so 1,52 middle sex turnpike, really to mess. As Jen had talked about, you can see on this slide that we are currently on the rendering. You can see how the perimeter of the site we are proposing to incorporate a new fence to help shield some of the parking that is going to be increased on the site. In addition, this front area of parking, I'm sorry, you can't see anything else, but that is right directly next to the existing house building up front that is going to be dedicated for the tenants of the house. Can you come here space is that? Chad, can you help me put that on the leaves too, but I want to confirm with you please. Are you talking about spaces? Oh yes, on this site you can see there's two spaces next to that existing house remain on the plant left side. And how many units in that building? In that residential use? Yes, I believe there are two units in that building. Do we? Okay, and how many bedrooms? Madam Chair, Lisa, Ciketti, maybe better positioned to answer these questions. Do she have panelists status or could she be unmuted? Okay, with the name. Thank you. Lisa, Ciketti, there we are. This is Lisa Ciketti at my address is 101 North Beacon Street. So the building up front has one unit in it. And that is rented out and also used by people that are helping us just oversee the shelter property. So how many bedrooms? It's two bedrooms. Wait, so that existing house that's there is one unit with two bedrooms? We use, so let me back up, there's one, there's two bedrooms being used as bedrooms. So we use it as storage. We have in the renovated garage in that building, we currently have an office that we are looking to move into the new building. Okay, so then describe to us the new building. Yep, I can jump back in. If we could go back to that bird's eye view plan at the top, please. So you can see the existing buildings in the dash area. I'll focus on the proposed building. That is where you see the proposed one story building, 3650 square feet. The shelter, the new proposed shelter, it is going to maintain a similar height of the existing shelter of not being higher than 15 feet. So you can see there's the shed located towards the right side of this plan and the left both remain fairly well hidden from the street. If you were standing on Dine Road, additionally, there is the mechanical equipment in the back of the shed that will be fed off. That is that small square towards the rear. And that is also hidden from the street and will be even more hidden with the increased. And then additionally, if you zoom in, you can see the setbacks. The average of the building is greater than the 40 foot setback. However, you can see on the bottom right corner of the shelter that is at 30 feet. So it means the setback apartments for the zone. So since this is a commercial use in a residential sub district, please talk through what the hours of operation are. What the hours of operation are. Lisa, could you address that? Yeah. So we have, we do not have open hours to the public except for a couple of times a week, which are approximately four hour slots on weekends. But generally, we're open 10 to 6 for staff and volunteers to come by. So you're open 10 to 6 Monday through Friday. And what are your weekend hours? So open for the public. It's still I would say it's still 10 to 6 Monday, seven days a week. Seven days a week Monday through Saturday. Well, okay. And tell us how many volunteers and how many staff. So we have. We have five on site staff members. And five full time equivalent on site staff members. And we have, I'd say, probably two volunteers a day coming to the shelter. Two to three volunteers a day coming to the shelter. Okay. And tell us about how you propose that the abutters are not affected by. By the by the cats. So that their sound or some kind of. So we've been in the neighborhood for since 1888. And it's far to my knowledge. And I've run the forum for about 17 years. We've never had a complaint from any neighbor about sound or. But you are expanding your facility. So I'm assuming there's an expansion in the number of. Of cats that you'll have there. That's correct. And basically, you don't wear the cats are located. So you're currently operating and hosting. Starting amounts of cats. What is six expansion going to host now? There's currently 40 cats in the shelter building. And with the expansion, we could accommodate 80 cats. And those would all be kept inside and just also on the subject of. Of sound mitigation. We have. And we have a lot of. And we have a lot of. And we have a lot of. Plans for additional equipment. Involve equipment that will not be heard off site. Okay. And how much was. You do refer to cat waste. Yes. Yeah. And we would be doing the same thing. At an increased rate. As needed. Okay. Okay. Madam chair, if I could in in relation to the. The hours of operation. I just wanted to stress that those those are open hours. But on average, the facility, I believe. The other one is that. As four. Adopters are visitors per day. So while they're. The hours of operation are 10 to 6. There's a very little traffic. And do you have that visits. We have. Once a week, we have a vet that comes in those rounds. Generally, we take our cats out to. Okay. So I'm just trying to figure out what the traffic impact is going to be on. Undying. Because then you say you have five staff. You have two volunteers. You have waste pickup. And then you have a doctor's coming through. And that's. And then you have the vet coming in. So just trying to figure out what that impact is going to. We have all of that already happening today. I understand. So I'm really need a capacity that's going to be. You know, a different impact on a. Such a residential neighborhood. You know, so. Anyway, how are the plans miss better. Madam chair, the plan to adequate. Any questions from the board. Is anybody here to speak and support our opposition of the proposal. Yes, Madam chair members, the board. Conor to them with the mayor's office neighborhood services. It's time the mayor's office likes deferred judgments board. Mayor's office held on the butter's being on March 7th. No serious concerns raised. You have a resident reach out to the applicant about some landscaping plans. You know, this facility has been in use in that neighborhood for a long time. They also went to the right also an improvement association received their support as well. And of course, the last thing. The last thing that we have to do. We have to do is. I will ask that they. Promote a robust road control program. There are some rad issues in that neighborhood. Not related to this facility, but hoping that it will. Exasperate things. And also, but best they continue to work with neighbors. Keep on. What's going on. Madam chair, I would like to note that we do have. Letters of support. Well, I know that. Can I. I just like to make it. We have been receiving testimony. I hear for more. Good afternoon. Councillor Raleigh to go on record and support this project. Thank you. Annabelle. Madam chair, members of the board. The BIA voted to support the project. I do live on. I'm dying and did have some concerns. It's really unclear with this presentation, are they having one residential unit, two residential units, and how big it is? Because it was never a mention of a residential unit. If there's someone living there now, they haven't caused any problems. And if they're related to it, I usually don't see any cars parked there at night time. So I guess a little confused on that. But what the BIA did ask was that they reach out to their neighbor directly next door, 38 Undyne, which I believe they have not done, and that they really do have a robust, rodent over what's required from the city, because we have been being dug up by National Grid and not watering sewer for the last two years, and it's gonna be probably two more years. Wrote it, there's a huge rap problem. The condos in Newton, which are right next to it as well, have a huge rap problem, and they ask that as well. So I guess, so a little bit more clarification on the residential and how big it's gonna be if they move their office. Thank you. Any of the, anybody else, Mr. Ambassador? When I have no other show, it's been. Okay, so what I would like the applicants to respond to is the residential use. And what plan is for upgrading that residential property, the screening and buffering, and if you respond it to the butter and any rodent control issues or responses. Madam Chair, I believe there is no change to the residential use, the one tenant, would remain the same. In terms of buffering aspects, is there something, Billy, would you be able to bring up a slide that shows that any buffering such as landscaping are fencing between the new facility and the residential structure? Okay, let's actually, let's just hold off. It is my question. Madam Chair, yes. Go ahead, yes, go ahead. We have a residential building up front that is currently being used to some commercial uses inside. They're gonna relocate that to their new building. Yeah. What are they gonna, they're gonna just leave that space vacant or are they gonna put it in the air? Okay, now let's just move, because I think you raised really important questions. This is what I was trying to get to with my question. Let us move directly to a motion because it sounds like it needs to be for this petitioner only, so that should anything happen to them, this is that the residential structure will move to purely residential use. No accessory storage office, etc., that the residential use will be upgraded. Sounded sounds like there needs to be screening and buffering plan so that the whole place looks is upgraded. And it looks like it needs to also have road and control plan to be and that they would need to continue to be in touch with neighborhood with the neighborhood. Madam Chair, we also have a proviso that talks about occupancy so that, you know, up to 80. Okay, and to cap it at 80, cap it at 80, okay. And then, so this is a forbidden use in a residential sub-district. So it's causing us, and it's an extension of a non-conforming use. And so, you know, we need to make sure that the residential uses around are protected in whatever way possible. And so is everybody comfortable, though, with this, you know, basically seven day a week, 10 to 6 operation, or should residents just be comfortable that on Sundays or whatever, that they're not gonna have commotion, you said. This, I mean, there's live animals in there. I feel like there's a need to be in that building seven days a week with live animals in there. Like, hey, I don't see a way around that. Yeah, Madam Chair, and you've started to summarize a very long list of provisos. Yep. For a forbidden use in a residential neighborhood. Yes. And is that neighborhood average? Is that, is that cover everything? Yeah, I mean, I still would like to get a better understanding of the existing residential structure in front. And what's that? I'm hoping that you design review that we will make sure that that residential building in the front stays as purely residential use. Whether it's, because, and they represented that it's one unit, that it's not two units and not building. Okay, just okay. And there can be a limit put forward in terms of just assessing within the year that residents are happy that road and control is being maintained. Could there be kind of a report? Okay. Okay, so let me see if I get this right. So it's the dispatition only to have, it's approval for design review. To this petition only, cap that 80 animals that the residential use be operated and confirmed as a one unit, that there will be screening and buffering. There be a neighborhood plan. I mean, there'll be a road and plan. Neighborhood outreach and attach base with this board one year from occupancy. Does that cover everything? Yes. Okay, so may I have that motion? Move, is there a second? Beraza second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Aye opposed, I pose a motion. I'm polygras. Okay, motion carries. So please be asked to be, continue to be good neighbors with your expansion. Okay, good luck. Thank you very much. The following next case, calling VOA 122-419-4200-High Street. This is a change of opportunity to a cannabis establishment. Violation is out of the 45, section 14. Cannabis establishment used this conditional out of the 45, section 14. The location to have been buffered on the conflict proposed within 2,640 feet of another cannabis establishment. Name and address? Full of reccompliance. Hello Madam Chair and members of board. This is Mike Ross from Prince of the Global Health and International Place. I'm here with one of the owners of high street cannabis Marie St. Floor. This is a social equity and Boston equity applicant. The relief we're seeking today is for an adult use cannabis establishment, which is a conditional use within this particular location of the city, as well as a variance for the buffer zone, half mile, that was just reference. Let me just start with the actual dispensary if I could Madam Chair. And I do believe there's an updated, Madam Ambassador, more updated version of the plans. I mean, we could make this work, but the latest ones might be more. That's all right. We'll make this work, members of the board. So what we have here is, if the other image was gonna show you that if you can think about this location, the green way is at the bottom of your screen, but it's not, there's a giant block of retail. I think it's a panerochre that's there right now between us and the green way. So you can't see this from the green way. The main entrance is on the right on high street and through that community process, well, this does span all the way across to Broad Street. We've shut down the Broad Street entrance on the left of your screen. So what you have is the more narrow high street street that shows access to this facility, not even at the main entrance of the building, but a secondary entrance to this building, no residential on high street. There is residential on Broad Street. Broad Street will remain as an area for just delivery for delivery and personnel entrance only, but will be shut off. You can see a little hatched area over there on Broad Street on the left side. That now is going to be a little area for community use, the local nonprofit that wants to use that for an office that will have its own distinct entrance and it will not be part of the cannabis establishment. Just returning to that high street entrance there, there's a man trap to get in, there will be security at the man trap. No answer, I'm trying to understand. So this is a basement use or is it a ground floor use? It's ground floor, there is a basement. The updated plan that I had for you removed that little note that said stairs going to the basement for overflow. This is employee area only, this will be used for lockers, bicycles, that kind of stuff. The basement is not open to the public. The public facing area, all in is 1500 square feet. It's a smaller, it's not a giant area at all. And then if you go up though to the next to the slide above that, you can see what I'm talking about. It's comprised of that check in area that you see that box kind of by the door on high street. And then just behind that check in area which has its own separate entrance, separate exit, is the, we see the points of sale systems along the side of the wall. And you see the, just the showroom area. So yeah, that's really the main area. And what are the proposed hours of operation? Yeah, the proposed hours of operation. Our Monday through Sunday, 9 PM to 9 PM, about 12 to 15 employees per shift. I didn't want to talk if I could, because I know that it comes up in other conversations about the buffer zone. If I could, it's the last slide. And it's just four very quick points. If I may, it's the last slide, Madam and Bass are there, it's Zoom out. It comes down to four reasons. One would be population. Downtown Boston is one of the busiest. So what I'd like to know from you is how far is it from any, from the other cannabis location? In the Warf District Council, there are two other, in the Warf District area, rather, there are two other dispensaries. 150 state street, which is 1,584 feet away from us. And then 21 Broad Street, which is 1,500 feet away from us. 21 Broad Street, rather small, footprint, 600 square feet, 150 state street, rather small, 1,000 square feet. Neither are open today. And the point we were making is that the demand of this part of the city will well exceed the certain, the resources that are there. And similar to what you see with the hotel market there on that slide, and even the on-premise liquor licenses there on that slide, there is a concentration of commercial activity in the downtown area that will support multiple dispensaries. In this case, we're taking a nod from the legislation of both the state and the city, which refers to the public need. In this case. So if I can backtrack for a minute. So your argument is that there are two facilities in proximity within this 20, 260, or 2,640 square feet, I mean feet, but they're both small facilities. And this too is a small facility and that there is enough of a demand given that it is our downtown. That's one of the points, Madam Chair. Yes. Yes. And then there were just kind of three other really quick ones. Public need is it's an enshrined in the legislation. It's meant to look towards the liquor legislation. So public need is something that should be considered. Equity is not, I mean, we're saying Flores on this call, she can do a better job explaining that, but the legislation was intended to not relegate equity applicants to the edges of, that's why we've seen back bay. That's why we've seen Fenway. That's why we've seen downtown. Not in the discretion of this board. I mean, case by case basis, not everyone goes through, but case by case basis, we've seen that. And then finally is the uniqueness of this location. On the call with us today is one of the owners, his name is Gawzard Cherilis. He's a former professional NFL football player. He, more than anyone has experienced how cannabis has helped him in recovery and in wellness. So this is going to be recreational and medical, then. It's going to be recreational, Madam Chair, but the analogies are the same in order to provide wellness, support to our customer base. Gawzard Cherilis comes from being banged up in the NFL, has learned from treatment using the cannabis. So he's going to send that kind of. So Mr. Ross, you might feel Councillor Ross. Thank you. Thank you. Let me ask Ms. Barr, how are the plans? I don't share the plans, you're adequate. Any questions from the board? Yeah, I, you know, I, I, I haven't agreed with you, Mr. Ross, about the difference between downtown. I wish the city had never imposed the buffer zone because all of the zone has created confusion chaos and total, total havoc. You have clearly demonstrated there's a public need for Dunkin' Donuts in the area. Absolutely. Like a store. Yeah, like a store. And I, I just throw my hands up at this point. The buffer zone discussion is utterly pointless at this point. Thank you, Mr. Ross. Any other questions from the board? We got a comment, any questions? Is it, is anybody here? No, it's a question. Okay, is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition? No applicants, please just, or are, whatever. So let's just get to the test tomorrow evening. Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor Newman with the Mayor's Office, the name of the services. If it's time to Mayor's Office, I'd like to defer judgments to the board, some information on the community process. They completely, completely, completely the community process receive the letter of support from the work district council and also a letter of non-opposition from council president Flynn. With that, we turn to the board. Thank you. For afternoon, Madam Audit Shaman, Mr. Sothebou, Anna Calderon from Council President Flynn's Office, the council would like to go on recording support. This proposal has received support from the work district council and the proponent has conducted a good community process. They are committed to work with the neighbors and the work district council as they operate and will work to maintain the character of the community. They have also indicated that they are committed to ensuring that the neighborhood that they are in continues to be safe, healthy, and invited to residents and visitors alike. However, the work district council and the high street canabels group has entered into a good neighborhood agreement which will remain in effect if the business were to be sold or transferred within the five year period. As such, the councilor is offering his support for the proposal. It should be also noted that the high street canabels group is an equity applicant that is well respected in Boston and it is critical to continue working closely with equity applicants in this field, along with women and minority, own small businesses. Thank you. Mr. Ambassador. Okay. One second. I'm sorry. Sorry. Michael. Sorry. I said a request to unmute you. Can you say any manadius for the record, please? I'll go to Derek. I'm going to be patient. I'm going to have you for the record, please. Derek Moilett. I'm at 141 Pearl Street in Boston. We've been a property owner and a business owner of BD early's restaurant for 25 years. I'm in strong supportive applicant at this location. It's a really densely populated area in downtown area and we feel like multiple cannabis businesses could drive more foot traffic into the area. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, Suzanne. Suzanne Revoi, 85 East India Roe. Executive Director of the Warth District Council. The council voted to support this cannabis location and the council speaks for the residential condominium associations and businesses surrounding the dispensary. Thank you. Okay. The Blake. I'm John Chan. I'm Mr. Board. My name is Luigi Natal. I represent Aaron Michael. It's his office. Sorry. You've been unmuted. Sorry about that. I'm John. I'm John. I'm John. I'm John. I'm John. I'm John. I'm John. I'm John. Thank you. We are in full support in this project. Thank you. And then Michael, go back to you. Can you hear us? Yeah. Can you hear me? Go ahead. I could have been in Michael, Colento Business Address at 115 Broad Street. One of our Tremont Construction Management based at that location. Just real quick. I just want to express support. First hand, the positive impact visitors and comedors have on this neighborhood. I think the neighborhood can support multiple the dispensaries. I fully support this applicant in the black and brown owned equity applicant at this location. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, I have no additional ways to answer. Okay, may I have a motion to please? Motion to approve with the usual drive-off with this applicant only. And do we need design review on this, Jeff? No. No, right. No, we don't need it. It does signage a cup to wash, we don't need anything. And so this applicant only, is there a second? Second. All those in favor? All right. Any opposed? Any opposed? Motion carries. You're all set, but that provides a good luck. Thank you very much. Thank you, members of the board. Thank you. Well, in the next case, calling you a 125-2505-166-168 sale-imstreet, this is a change of our community and residential in one store, building to a nine-unit residential dwelling, and extend living space into the basement, construct new re-adducts, violation of Article 54, Section 10, for an area issue of excessive. Article 54, Section 21, our street parking is insufficient. Name and address for the record please. Greg McCarthy for 166L. Tell us what's being proposed, please. Sure, we have a existing nine-unit building that's currently eight residential units in one commercial unit. The commercial unit used to be a club, which hasn't been used in some time. So we are proposing to change it from eight residential, one commercial to nine residential. We don't have any way to provide a parking spot for that nine-unit. So tell us the square footage of this proposed additional unit and whether or not it's in the basement. So there's a, it's a duke, so it's on the first floor and in the basement. The square footage is above 900 square feet. So it has one bedroom and a kitchen and living on the first level. And then a second living room and a office in the basement level. So it's basically, and tell us about the floater stealing hide in the basement? It's 94 inches minus another, sorry, 9 foot 4 inches minus another 10 inches. So it's going to be about eight and a half feet. OK, OK, how would the plants miss better? And I'm sure that plants are adequate. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak and support our opposition if this proposal? And I'm chair members of the board, Conor Newman, the Nairsoft Neighborhood Services. Sounded with a preferred judgment to the board. Sorry, it looks like this was added later wasn't on the agenda that we have initially. So I don't have any notes of this. Thank you. They have a motion, please. Madam chair, I'd like to before a motion of approval. There is second. Thank you, Ligris. All those in favor? Hi. Hi. Any opposed? Motion carries. You're all set. Good luck. Thank you very much. I'll go next. Case calling, V.O.A.1239778, 50 clap street. This is a expanding the existing medical marijuana treatment senate to appropriate adult youth sales. Violation, tactical 65, section 15. Mrs. Sam. Cannabis establishes a conditional. The CCC. No, I never got, well, I never got called for it. I'm sitting here to the blades, but talking about clacks street now, I guess it got approved, right? So anybody who's calling in from the Blake's number, can you please mute yourself? We can hear you. That's okay. It's going to happen, right? Are you here to speak for this unpopular? No. No. Well, here we go. Get my animals for helping me to sleep. But no. Hold on. Hold on. Can you mute me? Hold on. Can you somebody mute her, please? Can we hear from the applicant on clap street? Hello, Madam Chair. This is Mike Ross. No, okay. Sorry. There's a help. Thank you. Thank you. No control of that. But here to speak, are you ready for me to just, I could tell you read it all into the record. My head, Mr. Ross, I'm just waiting for a comedy relief to relieve. Okay. Madam Chair, did you want me to go or? Yes, please, Mr. Ross. Tell us the, what's being proposed? Sure. So this is Mike Ross. I'm here with Dan Linsky, who's our security consultant. This is 50 clap street. Again, this might look familiar as well to the board. In that, in 2018, the board granted medical approval. That's a picture right there of it today. Medical approval for the facility. We are now here for a use only designation by the board to allow for the adult use component at 50 clap street. What you're seeing in this photo right here is basically an 8,700 square foot lot. It's a two-story building, which is about 6,000 square feet. The sales area is exclusively on the first floor, and we'll remain on the first floor. And how many square feet is that? It's approximately 1,200 square feet. That's a good image right there. The floor plan on the right. It's about 1,200 square feet, not including the best you built, which is just around 400 and the fulfillment area right there. So what you see here, let me orient you. The main entrance to this facility is at the bottom of your screen. And it's accessible off of clap street, which is at the top of your screen by that sidewalk. There is also a side entrance on the way to the back that you can see in the left side of that plan. And that's, no, I'm sorry, on the left side of just that plan. Yeah, on the right. And that door right there is an accessible door that our security person could access and go through as well, or he could go through the bottom of the screen. Deliveries will be made random at the time. The proposed current hours of operation today and going forward our Monday through Saturday. This is the current hours from 9 AM to 6.30 PM. And on Sunday, they're open from 11 AM to 5.30 PM. And those are intended to remain. These are renderings of the elevations. And the lower right hand elevation right there is that's that back entrance at the back of the building. That is, you know, you kind of walk around and you get over there from there. There's also two public restrooms. The board might know a medical does require restrooms to be on site. It's not required for adult use. But those will remain, as I mentioned, there's no actual changes to the work. It's just the use. Or tell us about the parking place. Yeah, there are nine parking spaces on site. The site plan above is actually a better image. Right there on the left. These are nine parking spaces that are available to our customers. The customer's claps street also has currently undesignated parking along claps street. We have a commitment for none of our employees to park in any of the parking spaces on site or on even claps street itself. And we incent our employees to use public transit to get there. We currently are seeing about 50 patients a day when averaged out across the year. We anticipate probably around 100 patients and customers coming to the facility at the once we're open for adult use. I can pause there, Madam Chair, and answer any questions. Are you finding that is there a difference between your weekend and your weekday visits? That's a great question. I do have members of the team who could answer that. In terms of what they're seeing. I don't know if either Joseph could raise his hand or David could raise his hand. They can answer that question for you. I think the busiest days are Friday, Madam Chair. There is activity on the weekend, but it's spread out throughout the course of the day, so it's really not at any one at any one time Friday. Friday after work, it's probably the busiest for the facility. So Miss Federer, you have probably an amazing, given that this is a third cannabis. Stop, went. Have a lot of experience today in looking at cannabis plants. How are the plants? The plants are adequate. I just had a question about accessibility, the parking accessibility. Is there, typically they're closer to the building, where almost the compact is? Yeah. Yeah. Can you speak of that or at least potentially, you'll have to do patching on the floor to connect to the building? Yeah, the ADA site is that number one on the plan there. And it's closest, as I mentioned, the actual entrance is at the rear of the building, so it is the closest to the entrance of the building. Okay, so I would just encourage you to extend the pattern to the building. Oh, I see, I see your point. Yeah, good. Okay, great. Now, everything is good, is adequate. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak and support our opposition of this proposal? It's Adam Chair, members of the board, George Swin with the mayor's office, the name of services. Officer said a community outreach meeting with a goalful last year, the establishment has operated successfully with medical sales since January 2021. We have to want to satisfy all parts of community including a robust community benefits package and the BCB, the Boston Sports, voted in January of this year to grant the petition for the addition of recreational canvas sales and our office has received letters of support. At this time, we would like to defer judgment to the board. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, John McEvans, Councilor Frank Baker's office, would like to go and record a support. And Travis, you've been a new to the name and address of the record? Hi, Travis, we're eight St. Martin Street, George Hester. I'm part of the McCormick Civic Association, John W. McCormick Civic Association, and the neighbor, they've been a great neighbor. They've lived up to everything they've said they would do in our, when we approved them at the association, for medical, so we are in on support of them doing the recreation. Thank you. And Ben Murphy, go ahead. This has been Murphy from the new market business improvement district. I'd like to echo the previous comments that the applicant has been an excellent neighbor and community member. And so we are strongly in support of this project. Madam Chair, I have no additional responsibilities. They have a motion, please. Madam Chair, I'd like to put for a motion of approval. Can we, again, and it looks like that's a pretty barren building. Can we have some screening and buffering at the street edge? Because I see a plan to propose that. Yes, Madam Chair. Is there a second? I'll second with the addition of the screening and buffering, Lycrus. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries, you're all set, but those provisors, good luck. Thank you very much. Mr. Fortune, are you having technical difficulties? No, I'm just... I'll keep you on. You guys are contending, and I made them a panelist. Let me just... Okay. On. She jumped off. Madam, I'll move it out. I'm going to trace that on right now, but I get to see him pop off and pop off, and somebody maybe has some connected big issues. Madam Chair, can you hear me? Yes. Okay. I was not able to vote on the last one, but I was able to listen to everything. We haven't definitely have a technical difficulties here, but I was in support. Thank you. Are these temporary technical difficulties, in other words, do we need to... Defer all the... I'll get this to the next, under... Madam Chair, I'll turn to the council in the room. Madam Chair, we can't. They're just going to keep crashing over and over again, when we try to use it, so I don't know. It's awesome. We can... We can automatically give you a couple of minutes, and we'll take like a quick break, and see if we can park them again. Okay. Okay. I'm... It's in Sweden, and I'm just sorry for the... I'm sorry for the... But... I got to figure out the call here. We may need to put some on that to a random date, because we already have a right to always get a vote. We need to find a date cause the cost of... We will be here. And when you consider the problem, it's better too. Okay. So are you guys hot, Tom? Here's the chair. Are you guys on? So let's go with Northern Strait. Madam, I mean, I don't want you to... I mean, I can read them into the record. You have access. No, no, no, no. What a cake. But you know, the issue becomes then we become a six-member board, especially... Well, yeah, is anybody going to be refusing the votes and votes? What? Okay. Okay. So let's go, Mr. Regiro, we didn't really... Call in case BOA 12490248 Northern Strait. The companion case BOA 131968110 Northern Strait. For eight Northern Strait, violations of Article 65 Section 2 conformity with an existing building alignment, modal, not provided to verifiable clients. Article 65 Section 41, off-street parking requirements. Article 65 Section 9, Laudier Ratio, insufficient. Article 65 Section 9, law with insufficient. Article 65 Section 9, law frontage insufficient. Article 65 Section 9, floor area ratio excessive. Article 65 Section 9, building high excessive in stories. Article 65 Section 9, side yard insufficient. And for 10 Northern St. Article 65 Section 41, off-street parking requirements. Drive-way is shared with eight Northern Strait. Name and address for the record please. Good afternoon Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is George Baranti. I'm an attorney with the Business Address 350 West Broadway in South Boston. Madam Chair, members, the property only here is Sullivan Eckles, who lives in Unit 1. At 10 Northern St and owns a lot at 8 Northern St. I was retained by Mr. Eckles' Agents and Contractor, for the purposes of today's hearing. What's being proposed is an extension of living space into the basement of 10 Northern St. while also confirming its occupancy as the three-family dwelling, as well as a new three-story three-family dwelling at 8 Northern St. which is currently being used for parking. Mr. Chair, I'd like to... Mr. Chair, you back up. What is the zoning district here? This is a 3F-5,000 Madam Chair. And is this to combine lots? Are they going to go ahead as separate lots? No, they're in common ownership, but the owner is not selling, he's going to remain at the property. So they're going to remain separate lots with the shared driveway. Okay. Okay. Sure. I'd like to start with 10 Northern St. because as I said, when through community process, I wasn't participating in that. So that the current plans do show an extension of living space into the basement, which, as proposed, will include a bedroom. I've explained the board's position with respect to basement living space. And my client understands what that means in terms of a possible board proviso. Should this be approved? The unit in question is the owner's unit. But again, there's basement living space as proposed, including a bedroom. The two zoning violations are 10 Northern St. O simply to the shared driveway and the dimensions of the three parking spaces proposed in the rear, which are 7 feet by 18 feet. Again, they're in the rear yard behind the building. A new three-story three-family building is being proposed for eight Northern St. There would be two bedroom units of approximately 1250 square feet each. Again, with three parking spaces in the rear, which are also cited for dimensional compliance as they are 7 by 18. The law is 3128 square feet, whereas a 5,000 square foot law is required. But I wouldn't point out that this law is actually larger than 10 Northern St. where there's the existing three-family, and it's fairly typical for the neighborhood. There is a violation for insufficient law with, again, well fairly typical, for the district to 37 feet. The requirement is 50. There's a building high violation going to story height only. This is a two and a half-story 35-foot district, but there are many other three-story buildings in the area. There's sighted side yard setback violations. The left side setback is just over three feet, while the right lot line is part of the shared driveway. A rear setback of 22 feet is required here and there's a sighted violation, but it points out that the rear wall of the building is at a minimum 25 feet from the rear lot line. But the rear egress stairs do project into that setback area. With respect to the confirmation of occupancy of 10 Northern St. has a three-family. It has been taxed as such for many, many years. And I point out that it was actually approved as a three-family on a confirmation of occupancy application approved by the Board of the Peel in 1988. My assumption is that for whatever reason that permit was not pulled and expired. Finally, there's a proposed side entry shown in the driveway area, which would be, it's been proposed to serve the basement living space, which may or may not survive. But I think that that proposed side entry would need to be eliminated or into its impingement on the shared driveway. Otherwise, the driveway width would be just over 12 feet. There's an existing curb cut that is somewhat oversized. That would be relocated to a standard with curb cut serving both properties. Would that all pause and take any questions that members may have? Yeah, let's just ask about that. Basement unit. What's the basement space? What's the floor to ceiling height in there? And the floor to cell height? At 10. That I'm not certain, Madam Chair. I'm looking at the plans, as I said, when I did redo the plans. It was my assumption that the board would certainly strike any proposed bedroom. And it would be no building co-release granted, of course, if any of the proposed living space down there were to, were to survive, should the building be approved? Madam Chair, there's, the rear elevation doesn't really show the access to the basement door. It only shows the first floor. Okay. And how are the plans miss better? The drawings are okay. Okay. So the basement is submerged. I'm enjoying. Got it. Is any questions from the board? So, Miss Rosa, are there, there's two means of access to the address in the basement? Well, yeah. So there's one going to the first floor on the interior stair. And then there's one supposedly leading out, but what you just saw in the rear elevation, it doesn't show, it's almost, it must be, like, excavated, but it's not showing on this rear elevation. So it's completely submerged. It's submerged, yeah. Okay. Any other questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak, either in support or in opposition? And we're taking both cases at eight and 10 northern street. Good afternoon, member chairs and members of the board. Denise DeSansos from the mayor's office of neighborhood services. I would like to put on record that the applicant has met with the association a few different times and met with the butters back in October of last year. The community and the butters did support this proposal. The community didn't want to be more ownership in the neighborhood. So it's time our office will like to defer any judgments of the board. Thank you. I'm sure I have no raised hands. Thank you. Secretary here looks like we're back. Thank you, Mr. Regerio for seven in. We do have those letters. The mayor's office vote. Okay. Mr. Master, there's nobody else. May I have a motion on eight, northern, please? I want to make a motion to approve BPD a designer for you and no living space in the basement. So this is for eight, northern, which is the construction of a three-family building with parking spaces. And so this one is a true is there a second? Second. All those in favor? All right. Any opposed? Motion carries. Any opposed? Motion carries. Go ahead, Mr. Mayor. I'm going to make a motion to deny. Is there a second? All those in favor? All right. Madam Chair, may I interject after the vote? Thank you. Do you have something important to say? Any opposed? Motion carries. Go ahead, Mr. Mayor. If I may, on 10 northern street, it's actually two parties. And in northern street, it's actually two purposes to the, actually, sort of three, more than one purpose to the application. Shared driveway is part of that application. The parking and the rear is part of that application in the confirmation of three-family occupancy. Part of that application. Or for eight, northern is the erect a three-family building. Correct. No proposal at the base. You're talking for ten, Morton. Sorry, for ten, Morton. So I think the, so the, so, okay. So for ten, Morton. Sorry, ten, Morton. I would. It's denial. It's denial of extension into basement. Well, it's, is it approval for confirming the occupancy as a three-family? Madam Chair, can I, can I withdraw the motion I made and make a new motion, which is for approval for the, for the application, but a denial on the extension of living space into the basement? Okay. Got it. Is there a second? Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Thank you very much. The next case, the only DLA 1212750 750 high-pock Avenue. This is a razor roof, ten feet and fallen underground, through the demo and interior. This is a change of occupancy. And total out to a cow, watch the violations, article 67 section eight. Use and regulation. Additional article 67 section nine. It's efficient side to add setback. Article 67 section nine. It's just insufficient. Radio setback. Article nine section two. A change in the non-conforming use. An article nine section one extension of non-conforming. Dimension outside job. Name and address. The record, please. Can't take it. Can't. Can't did I. You want for this call? I sent a request to unmute you. I'm going to ask you to do that. Yes, I am. Okay, go ahead. Can you say to name an address for the record? Are you here to give testimony or is this your. Are you the applicant? No, I'm here to oppose to the car wash. Okay, hold on. I don't see. Okay, let's hold on to this and move to the next project. Yeah, hold on, Joe. Hold on. The next case calling the away 126195859 Dunboy Street. This is an extension of living space. The renovation of a two family in addition and extend living space into the attic. Violates. Article nine section one extension of non-conforming use. An article 51 section nine. Incipition side jokes set back. Name an address for the record, please. Is the applicant on for this? Yes, please. I'm going to ask you to do that. I'll see you later. Can you. Yeah. I want that Andrew's hand is up. Andrew. Andrew, I sent a request to I knew you are you here to help with this. The problem. Yes. Good afternoon, members of the board. Can everyone hear me at this point? Are you here for Dunboy Street? Yes, I am. Please put your name and address on the record and tell us what's being proposed. Good afternoon, members of the board. My name is Andrew Faulk and I'm a registered architect with a business address at 7 Ken Street in Brooklyn, Massachusetts. We are here today to request relief on two items. Number one extension of a non-conforming use. And number two insufficient side yard setback. The nature of the project is that we would like to finish an existing unfinished attic. And we would be constructing a staircase up to this attic and finishing approximately 550 square feet of the attic for use as a bedroom suite. Let's backtrack for a minute. What's the zoning district that this is in? This is a 1 F 5000 zoning district. And what's the current occupancy? The current occupancy is a grandfather to family. This exists as a rental to family for many, many years. Tell us about the bedroom pound in each unit. Yes. As proposed, each unit would have three bedrooms. Okay. And is there occupancy in the basement? There is no occupancy in the basement and there will be no occupancy in the basement. Okay. And tell us about this unit, this attic area. How many square feet is this proposed to be? Yes. This attic area, right there, if you zoom in, that's the area right there on that sheet. This, as you can see, is the rear section of the house. It's actually the rear 23 and a half feet of the house. And it's set back 27 feet from the front, from the front gable elevation. So what we would be doing is raising the ridge where the roof is shaded, a total of two foot six inches, just popping it up a little bit, two foot six, in order to get the head high we need to finish this existing attic for bedroom use. And, and how many square feet would that be in total? 550 square feet. And so this unit would be the set would be a three bedroom unit altogether. Okay. How, how are the plants miss better? I'm sure the plants are adequate. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak in support or in opposition of this proposal? It's been chair members of the board, Connor, newly with mayor's office, neighborhood services. This time, the mayor's office, like to defer a judgment to the board. Some background information in the community process. Our office held two of butters meetings. Initially, residents were more concerned with proposed parking in the rear of the property, as well as some water runoff issues. With the second aboutters meeting, the applicant worked to reduce that number of parking spaces in the rear, down to three, I believe, also agreed to work with members on screening and buffering. That was meantful to them and proposed putting in a French ditch to prevent any water runoff, permit packing, members in the rear. They went on to the Bright Olsen Improvement Association, which gave their support. The B.A.I. would want to request B.A. Design Review, and we've not heard from members. Sense those conversations. We encourage the applicant to continue to talk to members. With that, we defer back to the board. Thank you. Madam Chair, don't have any raised hands at the moment. The staff was the B.P.D.A. have a recommendation on this? Yes, Madam Chair, we did hold on just a second. This went to Thursday night, so let me just pull up my records here. I believe it was approval with design review, but don't hold me to how I'm almost positive it was. Okay. Please. Because I think we were concerned with the bridge line. Yeah, that's what I thought. Yeah, just five, nineteen, fifty. Yes, Madam Chair, we approval with the proviso that plans for any exterior changes be submitted to us for design review. Especially with the bridge line. Okay. Given that information, it sounds like it's some that the concern is the rich line, the screening and buffering and that the parking lot be deal. There might be some obvious materials used to prevent flooding. Does that seem to cover everything? Yes, it does. May I have a motion, please? Madam Chair, I'd like to put for a motion of approval with the proviso. One is BPDA design review on the exterior, paying special attention to the bridge. Two is to have screening and buffering and three is to have pervious surface. Second. All those in favor? Hi. Hi. Any opposed? Motion carries. Let's go. Please, Mr. Fortune, back to high park. Yeah, I'm just going to ask if I parked on the line. Do we have anybody that's representing 750 high park Avenue? I'm here. Okay. Are you sorry? Are you the better? Are you the applicant? No, I would be on a position to the first. Okay, so is the applicant here? Yes, now 136. I'm going to make a motion for denial without prejudice. Is there a second? Second. All those in favor? Hi. Any opposed? Motion carries. Madam Chair, I'm going to call the chair for the call of the clock for the Ericsson cases. I'm just going to call the purpose. I'll call each one of them and I'll do the purpose. The case BLA 1295864, the six R Ericsson, the companion cases BLA 12957718R Ericsson and BLA 129587020R Ericsson. But the hearing on this matter, the applicant satisfied the board that it had met the requirements to receive the necessary zoning relief for this project. The board felt the public benefit from further information, the applicant's turn it to play into public access amenities at the waterfront, as well as further information about parking and transportation on the site. The satisfy the provisional included when the board rendered its decision, the applicant is returning to the board solely to represent this additional information to members of the public who wish to learn more about the project. And that's the record please. Thank you Mr. Secretary, afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the board. I'm Jay Igramman, a law firm of Ruben Junius and Rose within address at 112 Water Street. With me, our Quinlan Locke from the developer rise together and Kevin Deibler from Rodi, all three of us are here. We submitted a letter and key to that letter are several slides. I'll go to those, maybe if you go to the first exhibit please. Yes, thank you. This one's quite dry, but this is about the transportation and the trip generation just to get you to get the board oriented on the order of magnitude. The weekday worst case scenario, AMP, you're looking at about 76 vehicles in and out and at the PM88. What's driving that are to remind you 120 rental residential units, a small local retailer, 3600 square feet. And then there's about 36 staffs, the square feet of office, and much of that is community space. We go to the next slide please. This is a satellite picture and it's a good way to get into the transportation. Everything is going to be buttoned up and put into a TAPA transportation access planning agreement, which is a binding agreement between the developer and the BTD Transfaces Department. But in the course of the last five years, we've already made many commitments and we already know what's going to go into that agreement and I'll summarize them as I did in a letter. First, as many of you know, DCR, which is the Department of Conservation and Recreation and Mass DOT are working on Watersy Boulevard to the left off the screen. And so we have an obligation to coordinate with them on what their findings are for the large scale redesign of that Boulevard and make sure it meshes with what happens here in North America. In addition, we are obligated to highlight a shuttle service. I think we mentioned that mentioned that in March. The shuttle service is going to run for at least a year in order to collect sufficient data on demand and the neighborhood, not just our project, but in the neighborhood. That's going to run weekdays, both morning and evening. And the idea is to go to the JFK UMass red line station. So that's an important component of this project. And the end of that year will be evaluated by city staff, including BTD to decide what to do next with it, to continue it, discontinuate or change it some way. Those sorry interrupts. So that is peak peak peak hours essentially. Yes, ma'am peak hours. Okay. So we're going to be learning and evening on weekdays peak hours. Another important requirement is there's going to have to be improvements to six intersections. You can see three of them on the screen here. So along Ericsson Street at the intersections with Lollie, Fort Norfolk and Walnut and then off the screen where they hit by, I believe it's water street. So six intersections to developer is going to have to put in stop or yield control signage as needed. Make sure all the cross blocks are restriped, handicapped ramps. And there may be areas where the sidelines can be approved. So with city approval and put from the neighborhood that make change the parking, get some cars away from the approaches, but that's not been determined yet. That's another responsibility. Another responsibility is so called slow streets program. So BTV and BPD a staff are having our projects spearhead a so called slow street study of the whole of Fort Norfolk neighborhood. So we're going to have to scope that with staff. Collect data, take input from the neighborhood. So there will be neighborhood outreach. And the purpose of the slow street study is to see whether there are additional improvements that can be made. For example, Lollie and Walnut are two way right now and are expected to continue to be two way. Fort Norfolk is one way northbound as expected to continue. But through the slow street study, it may be determined that there are alterations that should be made. So let me just ask a question. So this slow street study. Is this anticipated to begin when the building is up or is it when is it anticipated to begin? No, my understanding is it will begin before the building is up. So it will be the trigger will will probably be within a certain amount of time, deciding the tap up. So we'll be going right back to the community. In the coming months long before any of the buildings are completed. Okay. There's also as you might expect for any large project, there is going to be a transportation demand management program. I don't need to go over all of that, but for the benefit of the public, 25% of all the parking spaces and there are 115 indoor spaces will be electric vehicle charging. And then the rest of them have to be even ready in the future. There's sufficient demand. Okay. Now I can stay on this slide and we can talk about the open space. The site itself is outlined in purple. The what shows up as a yellow line is the historic shoreline. So about half of the site actually is historic up. And so is not subject to chapter 91. So as the board asked last time, is the open space going to be limited to harbor walk along the perimeter? And what's important is to know that the open space is going to be much more than that. You'll see in the cross hatch and white, that's the water dependent new zone that is regulated by state law. And that is where harbor walk is going. But the purpose of focusing you on this purple area is to show that the open space that will be required for the project is the entire site, not just the perimeter along water. So we go to the next slides, please. So that was the historic high level high level line. Yes, yes, yes. So the yellow line there was essentially the center of the site where buildings B and C are shown here. Buildings A, B and C. That is historic upland. That was not it's always been dry land. So it is not subject to chapter 91. However, in order to get into the site, the public will have the access along that what's at the bottom of this slide, the easterly side towards the NCO restaurant. And then would be able to enter the site. This color coded one is helpful to to give you the sort of activity areas. The pink that you see is the entry. So they'll be a dedicated pedestrian path coming lined up right with Port Norfolk open to the public at all times. There are no gates and also cars will enter in that pink entry. Then the cars, if they wish, can turn left into you see a red area called community war if I get back to the minute. The arrival clauses really the area where the cars can have drop off and there will be 10 visitor spaces there again open to the public. And then they could also enter if there are residents or office users. There's a parking garage within building a and a small one within building C. So that's where the arrival clause of districts the cars. The green area again that is chapter 91 jurisdiction that is the water dependent use area. And most of that is greened up, but it has to be carefully designed in order to do a sea level rise. We saw water tauren so on. Finally, let's talk about the two wars. The working worth as we call it is what leads to the marina. So most of the people accessing that will be folks that are members of the marina. There are 75 slips. There will be some transient. Tyups for members of the public. I don't think it's been pinned out how many that will be subject to the chapter 91 license. So members, some members of the public would go on the working worth. The community worth area that is meant to be open all the time to all of the general public bullers or not. So for example, it lines up with that pink area, the entry experience and the port north of street. So people simply can just walk out and enjoy being on the deposit river. There will be some programming as described in the in the letter in the community war fairy on the land side, the more rectangular area. But that's that will have to be worked out through community meetings. The idea is to have activities that neighborhood residents and other Bostonians are interested in. And I think that's where their their analogs for this in downtown Boston. I'm thinking for example of the intercontinental hotel. And that that will be subject to chapter 91 jurisdiction. I will just I will just put on the record only because I happen to know that there are issues and intercontinental may not be the best example. So I think that's the first thing that's going to happen is that you know there must be a way of you guys. And I want to put this on the record for me. Ensure that this war is accessible to people at all different levels of income. So that this there's a true equity component to this access. Somebody could possibly come down from the deposit. I don't know, you know, and paddle up or something like that. So it's not so it is purely accessible to Boston residents. I understood that chair. And yes, one advantage we had here. There was at one time a hotel component that was proposed as part of this project five years ago. There isn't anymore. I say that's an advantage because what happened with the intercontinental hotel is management there. We're making some members of the public feel that they had to be hotel guests in order to use the public space. We happily don't have that conflict here. So I understand exactly what you're talking about. If we can go forward, I want to take through some more slides. This is a helpful one to show you areas that are green versus not green. Most of the site today is impervious. It's basically black top recovered with with both sheds. So we will we will be able to improve that quite a bit. So I said earlier, most of the green space is on the northwestern corner at the top of your screen. And that's where the harbor walk stinks through as you can see. Next slide, please. This is the public entry that I'm talking about. So you're looking directly north to north from Fort Norfolk stream into the site. That's the existing condition. Keep going. So here in dealing with public access, you have to have visual cues so that the public knows they're welcome. So it may seem like a minor thing, but by actually painting crosswalks and the way you design the vegetation and it will be way finding. That's how the public knows they're welcome. They're not shut out. I mentioned before there are no gates. That's very important. Gates are a signal to the public that they're not welcome and they are not proposed or allowed here. We can keep going. This is an vegetation and it's trying to show how we're accommodating multiple paths. So another way to discourage pedestrians is not that side of us. So there is a pedestrian zone as it's called here. That's been accounted for to make sure it's not just cars we can get out if we could please continue. So this is showing you what I have called the pink area. So now we're along the edge of the site itself. Buildings B and C are shown on the left there with the pink roofs. You see the pedestrian path has vegetation on either side of it so that you don't have to mix with the cars. The stanchions that you see with the chain on it, that's a property line that goes to the Venetia. And as I think we've mentioned we have easement agreements with that owner and this will all be done in cooperation with them of course. Continue. Future slides. Let's see. Okay. Now we're in the site. This is the retail area. Although the Venetia is a longstanding public accommodation. There isn't any retail today. So there is this 3600 square feet. I know it's not a lot of square footage, but that is another way to welcome people in so that there's a destination when they walk in that entry area. You know, obviously it's not in program yet what the retail tenant would be. Most likely it would be something with with beverage service so that people are spending time in this open space. They can at least get a soda or a bottle of water and so on. But the point is it's not just something an amenity for the residents alone. It will be open to the general public. That's an important part of our program. Please go ahead. And this is the graph that's been submitted to DEP. Yes. Yes. All the drawings are consistent. So the same drawings that you're seeing and renderings are what are submitted to the Commonwealth for MEPA and for the future chapter 91. That's right. So this is the end. I'm sorry. Go ahead. Sorry. Go ahead. And so this is what I really were kind of arrival. Or so now you're looking vaguely, westerly towards building building a the big mixed use building. So it's between buildings B and C. The trick here is again, you know, with limited wind if we don't want a big boulevard and it's private property. But that is open to the public. And that's along that where you see that white car going is to the parking garages. But again, there will be 10 public spaces. And it's not chapter 91 jurisdiction. But I can tell you that they are very interested in visitor parking as well. So it's likely to be regulated not just by the city of Boston, but also by chapter 91 regulators to make sure their reasonable hours at these spaces are not privatized. If we could keep going, please. Can you please tell us where the bike path is in that image? Yes. Sure. This kind of you are really architects. The bike path would be actually there would be a different path for bikes that are showing them a different slide that would likely go out on a wider path. So we get bikes and vehicles and pedestrians accommodated different paths. So the big blue line here is a pathway that building C in that previous view showed that the bike room for that building would end there. So we do sort of bike around that it would be on this blue path, which is a much wider accommodation for pedestrians and bicyclists. So to answer the question, if you go back to the previous rendering, the bike path is not actually shown. The bike path is on the outside, the water side of building C to the right. It could of course walk their bikes on the sidewalk, but there is not a dedicated bike path in this image. If we can go forward. Okay, so now this is an important one, the linger on because it shows the balance of where you're trying to have is there parking and open space. So if you look to the right hand corner, lower right hand corner, you'll see a red triangle that's showing the view shed that this depicts. Obviously this is a view from the sky, but it's to show this area. Those are planters. I mean, ideas that the planters are removable. So I guess you can call it flex space. We'd like it could be greener than this. This is something that would be worked out in design review, but it's the space between the boat house and building a the mixed use of building. And the idea is there may be times where the arena needs additional parking. And so maybe you would remove some of those planters. There may be times where more visitors, maybe there's an event at that community work that we're talking about programming and you would need to optimize parking. But the idea that you can put the planters on and off and this paid these papers are not necessarily where it's going to end up. We could do more like purvious pavement where it's greener. So the paving that's proposed right now is all purvious. Not all of it. Now there is a later slide where we show the different materials, Madam Chair. If we can go forward, please. This is a view out to the water just turning to the east. So just just to show you what it feel like for the public again, no gates. It's meant to be inviting people can walk through the entire site. Please go forward. This is a panning drawing to show those two words I was talking about in relation to the deposit river and the floats. You keep going. This is a better a better view to give you the look at it. So the words that were just shown in the panning are of course on the left. So the one with a large yacht looking vessel. That's the one that will be largely for Marina users. But there will be transient tie ups as I said. The community area that we're all agreeing needs to be programmed for the general public is shown in sort of light green in a trapezoidal shape to the top center of the picture. And then that worth that sticks out into the river. The thin one. That's always open to the public. So I also would add you know some of these questions. We will make make it clear that we we met with the Boston Civic design commission five times over the course of development. The most recent or latest meetings with them this pathway was increased so that the feeling of its width was memorable so that you know that you can you can always come here. And this is a safe path. We've been trying to sort of strike this balance between natural environment. And there were a lot of comments regarding the plantings with our landscape architects on our team and landscape architects on this design commission. And part of this is also the restored salt marsh again to create more of a softer edge and mix the kinds of developments that have occurred on this over time. And this message of openness is something we actually are not going to have a sign on the on the building like this. But it's it's really meant to be a space that everyone can see even from 93 this view right here will be very visible to people coming in. And this pathway is meant to accommodate people as well as be a natural environment. So let me ask you all you're on this slide because that was one of my questions was, are you proposing then with land restoration on kind of that little green alcove towards the right hand side of the slide of the slide. I'm not sure exactly about the term wetland restoration that salt marsh restoration is the more specific term that our civil engineer landscape architects have been using. I don't quite know the difference on that. Obviously, with salt marsh it's more title environment, but this is a zone and obviously Boston is very exposed to the tide. So the idea that this will look different at different times of the tides is something of a design feature as well as an actual softening element here for a wave action, etc. Okay, move on please. Thank you. Next slide. This is showing the seating areas and so on at the at the edge we can keep going running short on time. This is a view from the community worth looking back at the buildings. Next slide please. Let's give this one. This is the beginning showing you the materials to show the thought that went into that. Again, the materials are important to signal pedestrian zones versus the nuclear zones, but also deal with sea level rise and resilience. So next slide please. This is a helpful one to show the sort of difference. The meandering stone dust path is harbor walk that we were talking about. That will be the softest, I guess would be the word used. And then as you move to the east, which is the bottom, it becomes more heart-skate. Next slide please. This is the sort of study that the engineers have done to figure out how this is going to work exactly what the chairwoman's question was. That top right is the area question. Next slide please. I'm warning is showing exemplars of what will be proposed and there's still a lot more review that has begun. Conservation Commission chapter 91, etc. Next slide please. This is a we thought an important view because it's it's pretenient beach essentially to show that's already a public area. What the public will see again, it's not meant to be a forbidding view. It's meant to be an inviting view. People can be curious about it. Turn the corner comments of Port Norfolk and visit. Next slide please. This was an important question about the word about how the parking is going to work. So if you could linger on this one just a little bit. So the main pass of travel of the vehicles are shown in red. And we talked about that entry area where there will be visitor parking. The total that I mentioned of 10 is a combination of the six as you come through this necking down area to the arrival port. And then that flex area that we talked about with the movable planters. There will be a change from season to season because of course in the winter time the boat house will be full of boats. But in the summertime the boat house can empty out that's the top right hand building. And that there's additional parking possible in the boat house because we're wearing both of them. So that's going to open things up where Marina patrons can park in the building. And that opens up more of the surface parking for the public. So let me just ask you a question. Say I was a canoeist. Yes. Just say I'm not, but how would I make my way to the community. War. I think you would have two options. You would have two options either the public here or the commercial here or the working warmth that as we call it. As a, as a occasional kayaker. I think they you sort of like know that where you can go. You would probably be more aligned to the public here, which would be away from some of the larger boats and faster moving power boats right there. So that public fear, which is an extension of Port Norfolk Street. What allow for that type of that would be the logical place to put in. But but that's the question. Say you have a canoe, you know, tidied roof of your car. I'd say they're there two options. If you're by yourself, you would make that left hand turn and park in the yellow area marked with six visitor parking spaces. And have to carry your canoe to the so that pier to the right. The other if you have someone with you, those are drop off areas further in in between the two yellow areas so called the rival court. So you could just have your friend drop you off and you can carry the canoe from there and then they can park the car somewhere else. Those of you the two options. Next slide please. The community room. We're working on the programming, but that's not something that we can do you know laterally there need to be community meetings on that because it's a community room. So example, as detailed in the letter, we have an idea that there isn't need during heat waves for cooling centers. This came up during review. The Boston Center for Youth and Families has a shortage of these cooling centers where people who don't have air conditioning in their home can essentially take shelter. That's something we want to explore here because the nearest one is over three miles away, but that needs to be talked over with the with the immediate neighborhood. So it's an idea. It's not something you know laterally you will do. Next slide please. Can you please show us where this would be in the site plan? Yes, if I think if you go forward we'll be able to find a. Yes, here we go. It's the building to the largest building to the top left and building a community room is in building a. And next to the resilient landscape, where's the? Yes, and the this may be not best slide, but really that that sort of rectangular space is above the sort of I guess the parking spaces that say 30 office spaces you can get to that by this lobby, which is open. But but what's more probably drawn people to that space is a fact that there's a landscape deck wrapping that that entire space so it will appear as a space that you would want to be in. And you would be sort of drawn to it through that residential lobby and which corner is it? It's hard to see. Is there a plan that you? Is there a plan that you would be able to see a. A. A. A. A. A. A. A. A. A. A. A. A. A. A. A. A. A. A. A. A. I don't know. I don't know for me. I can say that the picture is really accurate and and I like to hear that. That's an idea that I don't know if it will appear to the citizens right now, right and zero. någonting a, but I want to make sure you know which corner its on note 4 more slides back, please. Got here. and supports two buildings and structures above it. So the rectangular building, which is more industrial and more of warf language, would have that completely open second floor for these community uses, including the landscape deck. And the arrival plaza really kind of connects all the public spaces, including the lobby and elevator floor, which is that corner and sort of, I guess, gives you that vision of how you get up to that second floor space. So the building is- So it's an interior, the community room is interior program on the second floor. Correct. Of the rectangular building. And is that required by chapter 91? No. No, that came as an outgrowth of the large project review of the city, actually. It's not required by the chapter 91. OK. And this project has changed in its course of the development and obviously eliminating the hotel use. Rise together, their offices are- their construction developments are based in this neighborhood. They would be occupying that building. So it's really a mixing place for some of that commercial space, which an office space, which we feel is a more, I guess, sort of day to day place where people would feel like they can come and occupying and use that space and that gallery and community space. So in your- In your- You have a general professional office use of 36-3680 grossware footage. Is your 11,600 square feet of community room within that 36,000 grossware footage? Yes, it is. It's stated as 36,000 purposes of zoning and trip generation. But- But you're actually right. You're categorizing it as office use versus an occupancy of an A3 community hall use. Well, I didn't- I was just speaking to the Boston zoning code. You're- I defer to you on the occupancy. I didn't analyze it for the state building code. But you're right. It's probably different. I'm just- I- My- My- My only concern is if this is to be a resource for the community, it might be missed by the community because it's so internal and also might be used by the office- by the office tenants. Um, that- That would be my feedback. Like it- It doesn't feel like it's for the community in terms of its publicness. By the- There will be a cooperation agreement. Again, it's- It's not going to be subject to chapter 91, uh, jurisdiction. So won't be part of that license because the footprint of the building is on this door at upwind. But the cooperation agreement, uh, with the city's, uh, BRA. This would be a mandatory element and we would be in default. But I think you're- You're a good point, which is- There has to be- Essentially advertisement. We have to make sure that neighborhood organizations know this room exists. Um, so there has to be outreach to doorchester organizations. Uh, that's an excellent point. Here, just- I just- I just said make- And just to- This is an excellent error review. Just to entertain and put it out there. It would make sense for it to be close to the public boardwalk. Right, where that green space is. Right, well, uh, okay. Yeah. Just recommendations. Yeah, and- Part of it is going to also depend on your programming because, you know, there's some- Some models out there where programming really does attract, um, the activity that one would want in these community spaces. Uh, but please go ahead and- Um, and thank you for the detailed presentation. We should wrap up soon. I- we're- we're essentially finished. We can flip through the rest of the slides, but I think we're- we're- we're complete. And that community space, um, you know, and- and some of the needs are- These work spaces where multiple people can come and- and, um, um, so I think that it's proximity to office space. Is a way of, again, sort of, mixing those- those uses that, um, this community and the future community, um, will- will utilize. And- and Madam Chair, if I may, um, you know, rise wants to occupy this office building. Um, we want to be here, or currently in the community, and want to stay in the community. And we'll be operating and managing this community spaces, well, so, uh, we- we plan to make sure that this is open for the community to use. Um, we- we'll- we'll- we'll likely be working through the cooperation agreement on how things are scheduled in this space. How people have access to it, how their time has been things of that nature. Um, so, um, we look forward to that and look forward to staying in the community as well. Excellent. Um, any other questions from the board, or any other thoughts from the board? If- if you can tell, I have one last question, which is, uh, in terms of your total gross-ware footage of- Yeah. Uh, project. How much is it to residential square footage? And then how much is it to allocate to retail, retail, or restaurant? Uh, it's- the grand total of gross-ware area is about 203,000 square feet to round. The multi-family dwelling, which is the 120 units, is about 109,000. Uh, we already spoke about the general office. The retail is only 3,600. 3,600. Um, 22,000 is so-called waterfront service. That's what you have to qualify the- the boat- the boat house has. Um, the parking garage is also counted because it's a shared parking garage, and that area is 31,000. Okay, so my other comment is just the proportion of retail and current type of space to then the residents of the community. It just proportionally is- there's a huge gap. You mean it's not too small? Yes, 3,000 to 100,000 plus of square footage for residential. And this- this- this- the project in terms of the aesthetics, it's- it's- it's great. It wants to be a neighborhood. It wants to be a community resource. So I'm just kind of commenting on anchor programs that can support your project. Yeah. Can be enhanced. Understood. And- and- and location too. So it doesn't- and you know, I love the partnership with Boston Center for Youth and Family. But in that- if it was to be a cooling center, it makes sense again that it's closer to where there's public- in public view, not necessarily inside an office building. Okay. Well, thank you so much for your presentation. And thank you. Thank you for members of the public who are still watching this. I'm very interested because I do think that- this gives us as the board a- a clearer picture on how- how this- how the construction works with the open space and the soft edges and makes the project more welcoming to the community. Thank you very much for having us. Thank you, everybody. The- the meeting is now, John. Thank you. You