 lay Good morning. The Board of Appeals is in session. This is for Tuesday, June 23. As I say at the beginning of every meeting, if you're having a conversation, please take it outside of the room. As you know, the acoustics are very poor, and it makes it difficult for us to hear. Also, if you have cameras or anything like that, all our sessions are being taped and live-streamed, so you can pick it up later. It's just that we get blinded by the lights, sir. Secondly, if you're here to speak in either support or in opposition of a project, we will hear the first five people on each case, as is what we normally do, but we will also send out around a form so that you can put your name down and whether you're in support or in opposition. When you speak, please try and keep your comments to the case. And if somebody ahead of you has already stated what your concern is, please do not repeat. Give us some new information that will help us with the decision. You've probably seen our agenda out there, and we want to make sure that everybody has a fair opportunity to present their cases. And this includes those who are here and scheduled for 11.30 on new time. So we ask your indulgence on that. So we're going to be starting off this morning with the board final arbiter. Following the OA, 376, 43246, 248 West Broad. Amen, have a good rest of the week. Good morning. Good morning. My name is George Morancy. I'm an attorney with the business address of 350 West Broadway in South Boston. Madam Chair, members, this matter was approved by the board last September. I believe it is an eight unit project on West Broadway in South Boston, a conversion of an existing mixed use building with a fifth story edition. Subsequent to this being approved by the board and the butterfile, the judicial appeal. We have an agreement in place without a butter that would dispose of the litigation. It is promised upon new plans, which I have submitted to the board. Those plans make the following changes to the plans originally approved by the board. The fifth floor of the building is removed in its entirety. The unit count remains the same. The unit that was in the top floor is simply being relocated or reallocated within the building. There will be an extension of living space into the basement and two by-level units on the basement and first floor. But there will be no additional violations, no increase in FAR, no increase in unit count. The net effect of the agreement in the revised plans is simply to eliminate the fifth story edition. OK. Any questions from the board? May I have a motion, please? Motion to grant their relief request. There it is. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? The motion carries. You have it. Thank you. Probably DZC 32190310-348-Harrison-L. And PAYDIC-DZC-224-12310-348-Harrison-L. Name an address for the record please. My name is Mark LeCasse. LeCasse lost 75 Arlington Street, Boston, Mass, attorney for the applicant in each of the cases. There are actually separate cases even though they have the same address. So the first case, 32190, concerns the unit count in building number two of the ink block complex in the south end, which is a four building complex. As originally submitted, the plans for building number two showed 131 units. But as a result of the reallocation of some of the units and some of the buildings, that particular building is now 134, whereas some of the other buildings have fewer units. So we submitted in connection with getting a final certificate of occupancy submitted an amendment, which then ISD suggested we submit to this board for a final Arlington review so that the unit count would reflect the this board's prior decision. Your prior decision was based on the original plans showing 131 units, the AS-built condition for building two is 134 units. So this request is to conform your prior decision to the AS-built condition. But the overall unit count for all four buildings out ink block remains the same as approved by the BRA, which is 471 units. And the violations did they change any? No violations were changed. OK. Mr. Alba, one of the questions. Where do the units, the new units, are they the same size as or less than squarely the new units? The building remained, the building envelope remained exactly the same. Oh, I understand the building envelope remains the same. So some of the units. Whether the units have three new units, less than the normal size that we would approve. No, in no case. What happened was some of the larger three bedroom units were reduced to increase the number of units in that particular building. Could I ask the following that the prior to a signingly decision could in fact a set of annotated plans be submitted to us, which show what we can approve versus what the changes are? Those are on file with ISD in connection. That doesn't help us. Yep. So what I'm asking for is the prior to a sign of the decision that this board could have copied those drawings. Certainly. OK. Great. So do I have a motion? The motion could be rather early requested with the proviso that annotated drawings be submitted to this board to accurately reflect that which was originally approved and that which is now being subsequently changed. Do I have a second? Sorry. All those in favor? Hi. Any opposed? The motion carries. The second case. Good morning. Mark LeCastley-Castley-Castley 75. Rolington Street, Boston, Mass, Attorney for Whole Foods, Supermarket at the ink block complex. This is a request to extend this board's prior condition to use permit for the outdoor sale and merchandising of goods on the sidewalk in front of the Whole Foods supermarket. You granted that condition to use permit in June of 2013 long before the building was even built. The plans have been submitted and approved to the BRA for design review as one of your providers in your prior decision was BRA design review. We just got those last week. Those have been submitted to ISD. And we're simply waiting for the final sign off. But the two-year period will probably run before ISD issues the final permit. So this is a request to extend your prior decision by six months just so we can complete the process and get the condition to use permit for outdoor merchandising. May I have a motion please? Motion granted. We'll leave the question. Is there a second? Second. All those in favor? Hi. Any opposed? Motion carries. You're all set. Thank you so much. All in easy. See three, three, five, six, nine, five, forty, three to five, forty nine, go just to have. Name it address for the right to please. Add a burn, six, 90 seconds, drink Boston, that's two sets. Tim Johnson architect, 190 old colony, Av Boston, Madam Chair, members of the board. We are here before you on July 22nd, 2014. We were granted a variance for an eight unit building. There are one bedroom units price for affordable and working class buyers. Since then ISD has requested an amendment to the permit description, which originally started four units and then it went to eight units, via board, final arbiter. That is why we're here. The change from four to eight units does not incur additional zoning relief. I have a letter here from ISD stating to that effect. Mr. Johnson, can you please back up? So when you were here last year, did the board approve this for eight units? Yes, ma'am. What did the plan show? The plan showed eight units. The plan showed eight units. Eight one bedroom units. Eight one bedroom. So why are you here now? We originally started out with four units, four two bedroom units. And my client Adam Burns decided to go market these as, go ahead. I looked around the market in South Boston, noticed a serious need for the support of housing. And it changed through the community process from four to eight units. The four units were the typical two bedroom two bath that everybody was selling in South Boston and the market was going through the room. The one bedroom, one bathroom units cater more to the working class that is commuting into the city and this transit oriented development. We was approved as eight units before you last year. It was stamped as eight units. ISD just had the description as four units still. So we're here to correct that. And what's affordable? 275 for three of the eight units and 325 for five of the eight. Sorry, say that again. 275 for three. Three of the units. 325 for five. And these are single bedrooms. Yes, ma'am. And the. Any questions from the board, Susan? So just to clarify, the advertisement is a board well. So typically our procedure is you can go down but you can't go down. So we wanted to make sure that it came back to the board at least to recognize that was a two four unit. So the plan of the unit. That the community was completely aware that it was eight units despite the re advertising. Right. And we held an additional butters meeting per the two weeks ago. Just to be sure. What originally was your parking requirement? How much did you originally provide? How much do you know? Right. The required spaces were four parking spaces. Four units of three. For four units. Yes. So your parking violation has increased that? The parking violation has increased, yes, ma'am. So. And we started it around. We met with or spoke with the building commissioner. He requested that as Susan Rice said, an additional butters meeting. We contacted Andrew Square Civic Association and we had one on site. All attendees were in favor of the change. Now was that a butters meeting or a meeting of the Andrew Square Civic Association? A butters meeting. Butters meeting. Mayors office wasn't there. Patty McCormick from Andrew Square Civic Association was there. This mayors office have any comment on this? Madam Chair, through last year when this whole process came through, they originally started with four units of four parking spaces. But even the neighbors in the area realized that since the depth of the lot was so shallow, that the parking and the alleyways were so tight, that parking wasn't a viable option on that site. So in turn, they worked with the proponent to come up with a plan to help keep the affordable, to make the units affordable for the residents. So the eight units in zero parking has been established for over a year. And they held the meeting two weeks ago on a Saturday. That was unavailable. But just to reaffirm that with the neighborhood that nothing's changed when they got to renew notices in the mail. Tim, could you just relate with the square footage changes? Because the volume of the building didn't change, therefore it has some end of reduction in the size of the units. Correct. So there initially there were four two bedroom units approximately 1,200 to 1,300 square feet because we do have bays. Those were tight, just cut right in half. Now we have eight one bedroom units approximately 625 to 650 square foot. And how far away from the end of the square station is the square? Two buildings. One building. One building. Excuse me. So it's a building. It's a hopstep in the jump. Friends of the audience. Thank you. So just not to beat it, that it works. But that is the butter's meeting in the app and discussion. When the approval was from just before today, there were there on the journey that happened at the park and space. And that's what I'm saying for it. Parking space would have stayed zero. What would stay as they were originally intended, whatever for? Correct. Don't be in the hall of grace or for this. OK. There's a lot of emotion. The motion to grant the relief request. Thank you. All right. Chef Sir, continue to be our executive. You want us to do that? That would be fine with us. Continue to be our executive. Is there a second? All those in favor? All right. Any opposed? You're all set. Thank you, Madam Chair and members of the board. Thank you. Calling these is 827-6247-2788 Edwards Street. There are a whole bunch of addresses there I want to call them all out one time. Calling BCC2726345-4588 Edwards Street. Calling BCC27264-43-4388 Edwards Street. Calling BCC27265-4141-A Edwards Street. Calling BCC27266-49-4988 Edwards Street. BCC27267-51-A Edwards Street. BCC27268-39 Edwards Street. BCC27269-215-218 Blue Pill Avenue. BCC27270-55-59 Edwards Street. BCC27271-53-53-8 Edwards Street. BCC27272-37-37-8 Edwards Street. Name and address for her. My name is Christopher Machado. I'm an attorney with Goulson and Stores with a business address of 400 Atlantic Avenue in Boston. 02110. Madam Chair and members of the board. Our office represents Kazanov Land, LLC, an affiliate of the Nuestra Community of Development Corporation, and the proponent of the Kazanov Holmes Project, which is located at the intersection of Blue Pill Avenue and Edwards Street in Roxbury. It's the redevelopment of the former Kazanov Bakery site. This project is short. So because you're here for board final arbitrary, we do have cases that we will be hearing for the first time coming up. Can you summarize for us why you're here? What is the change in the unit count in the parking? Because I have seen what you have. And if there are new plans, please make sure that you're not protected. We have copies of the plans here. Madam Chair, I'll for the record I would like to recuse myself on the set. OK, for the record Mr. Biggestown has recused itself. Great. We're here for two reasons. First of all, to request an extension, a one-year extension of the relief that was granted in 2006 and subsequently extended through June 30th, 2011. Now, because that relief was in effect between the statutory tolling period under the Permit Extension Act, that being between August 15th, 2008 and August 15th, 2012, it has the benefit of an automatic four-year extension under the Act, and as such, would not expire until June 30th of this year that being next Tuesday. So you are requesting until June 30th, 2016. That's correct. OK. Secondly, we'd like your confirmation that certain project changes, which result from difficulties in financing, and they reduce the scope of the project, are consistent with the relief that you granted in 2006. Those changes are shown on the plan and consist of reducing the building envelopes for each of the units and dividing the homeownership units into two phases, phase 2a and phase 2b, and those phases are demarcated on the plan and shown in a dashed line. Phase 2a would consist of six buildings, a six-unit row house, and five two-unit townhomes. And phase 2b, which is at the rear of the site, would be constructed on an area that consists of ledge and has been very difficult to redevelop, very costly, to redevelop. And so we're proposing to develop that site at a future date if financing so allows. Just to ask you, has the size of the units changed in any way? Have they decreased in size? Each building has decreased in size, and the units have decreased slightly. But we've maintained, we've preserved the parking ratio. We've decreased or increased the yards. And we've also proposed to increase the affordability of the units. Previously, there were seven units, required on the BRAs Corporation agreement, seven units at 70 AMI, I'm sorry, 80 AMI, and seven units at 110 AMI, proposing eight units at 70 AMI, and eight units at 100% AMI. So we're increasing affordability. Thank you. Mr. Pazani? Can you simply give us a new iteration of what the approximate unit size is on? Michael Lou from the architectural team can provide that for you. My name is Michael Lou and I'm called principal of the framework of the architectural team. The unit's very in size, but that's an example. The unit size is now, or the Royal House approximately 1490 square feet. That's a reduction of about 20% of the size of this former side. How many of that runs in the typical ground? How many of that runs in the typical ground? And that's across the board. Is that also take care of the procurement building? That's true of all of the buildings, the low sunbar, roadhouses, and some other town. Right, but facing, they went from 1,400. Basically, all of the units are smaller, and the site head came from the new building footprints. With the gray, you see, with the slightly larger. Thank you. Any other questions? May I have a motion, please? Make a motion to grant the relief requested that is to reduce the sizes of the unit developments and to allow for a phase 2A and a phase 2A to be a construction. Thank you. May I have a second? All those in favor? Time. Any opposed? Motion carries. You are all set. Good bye. Thank you. Any other night? Do you have any case of building coming, calling B-O-A 462-99155-57? The applicant yet for travel, is there any? 15 travel? No. 55 travel. We will hold that case. We're going to call here 930-Harrings. Calling B-ZC-3339-609-443. 20 case B-O-A 457-389-609-443. And B-O-A 457-312615-443. The purpose is to direct a four-story building for 31 residential units. Violation is our Article 3 section 3-1, restricted parking district. Article 10-6-1, limitation of area of needs and constraints. Article 10-6-1, limitation of area of no-op. No-op fee parking allowed. We require front yard districts. Article 14-14-2, body of our traditional dwelling units is insufficient. Article 15-6-15-1, floor area ratio is excessive. Article 17-6-1, usual little space is insufficient. Article 19-6-1, minimum side record. Feign yard required is insufficient. Article 16-6-1, height is accessible. We also have the building code. The building code section IEC, Article 7, openings are not limited. Section IBC, Article 6, Section 602, which area walls are required to have the quiet residents. The purpose is to combine this law. Yes. The bank's parcel and subterby tool are to keep 25,545,000 weeks giving the building of 32,240. Violations are... Article 80-2, Section 80-2, application of law, product, and rebuild. And I'm sure, I'm Mr. Bourd. My name is David Murray. I'm an attorney with Murray and Associates with 470 West Broadway, that's in self-possed in mass. With me is Niles Sutton, the architect on the project. You think up a little bit? Yeah. I'm going to apologize right in advance. I know I sound like Catherine Hepburn. I'm just a little on to weather this morning. Okay, just before you begin, what we would like to have your address first, as we usually do, is have the building code violation addressed first. And then we will move to the relief requested. In the meantime, if... I should say if, people are here to speak and support an RNR position, please identify which form or five people will speak either in support or in opposition, so that we can move directly into testimony once the applicant has presented the case. Okay? And once we're done, please can you leave quietly so we can move on to the next applicant. Thank you. So please proceed with the discussion of the code issue. Absolutely. There are two code issues that you see before you right now, relative to A, the firewalls. The fire retardant, they will, in fact, be this is a brick building. They will be fire retardant. The second building code violation, the time of the opening, if you look in the diagram that Mr. Seffen has provided to you, there is a punch out for lack of a better expression. I'm going to direct your attention to the second page. Will you see or it says one story on the right hand side between the two areas that say, landscape theories? There are windows that are currently in place there. Those are the openings that we're talking about because they are within the popular lines. We're doing it for aesthetic purposes. If, in fact, the board decides they don't want it open, so they can be ripped in. But we think aesthetic purposes, we're talking something that is 20, I believe it's 25 feet. You guys have a clarification. You look at A1. You're talking about the fitness center. Yes, sir. Absolutely. And the fitness center shows five windows. There's three that are closest to the property line that are in question. That's correct. Is the building fully springed? It's going to be fully sprinkled, yes. And can you provide it sprinkled ahead at the center line and each of those windows in addition to the sprinkled ahead so that we require it in the room? Yes. Notice I defer to someone much smarter than I on the building. That's yes. So it's on the record it's yes. Yes, on the record it is yes. Okay. The building will, in fact, be fully sprinkled. We will put in that center line as requested. And then the application did notice that it was fully sprinkled as well. Okay. So I guess two correct, fully sprinkled, but in this particular room that sprinkled ahead from the center line, which is the window. Of those three windows, yes. Right. Of the window, it's a question, no, a tip to the building code. It's in a building code violation, absolutely. Do I have a motion? Motion to grant the building code relief request that the comprise of that the sprinkled ahead is the senate on each of the windows, which is the property line, and that utilizing lower-cap. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Yes. So the motion carries on the building code relief. Now, did you go through an articleating process? We've been through a small project for you, yes. Okay. And that's been completed. It has been completed. Okay. It was completed upon, forgive me, I'm eyeballing my dates here. I'm looking at May 27th, but I want to verify, was it May 27th? No. But it was pretty much. It was March 27th. Okay. So briefly tell us what you're proposing and address the zoning code violations. So what we're proposing at this time is to consolidate three lots. There are three lots to make up this parcel currently. The parcel is comprised of the Gate of Heaven Church, which was established back in 1865, along with the school, the school's established in 1879. The school has been closed since 2009. We're going to consolidate those two lots and then, comprise it, subdivide them into two lots, keeping the church in place in its current position and then the school relative to what we're proposing in the school is we're going to put in 26 units in that school. Those 26 units made up of one bed, 18 three beds and seven, I'm sorry, 18 two beds and seven three bedroom units. The exterior of the building is not to change, save windows in the immediate top floor. The existing structure are not adding height, which is putting windows as well as putting, if you look at diagram 1A again, there's a new vestibule on the far left hand side. And what are the range of sizes, unit sizes? I'm going to defer to Mr. Sutvin on the sizes. Madam Chair, welcome to the record Nile Sutvin, I'm the architect of the project, 197 H3 in Charlestown, Mass. The unit sizes, there's one one bedroom, which is 740 square feet. There are 18 two bedroom units, which range from 970 square feet to 1,460 square feet. And actually some, there are four large two bedroom units, which range up even to 2100 square feet. There are also, in finally, seven three bedroom units, which range from 1658 square feet up to 1900 square feet. And that comprises the 26 unit total. Thank you. And parking is being provided? Yes, parking is being provided on site. The number of parking spaces is 40. 40 spaces. Is this a complete gut? Yes, this is a, I'll understand this is an existing building, and we are going to completely rehab the structure, including the addition of the sprinkler system and accordance with public. Not bad, that's what I could have done. Yes, I have. So, bring co-construction company. And you have a question, how do the plans look, Mr. Designe? The lines are adequate, you have one question though. The data 12, 4, 14, and these still, the operant plans that have been approved by the VRA. They are the operating plans, and we would like the board to accept the plans that you currently have, which are that data as the documented operative plans. You have an additional question. Could you speak to the roof decks? Yes, the roof decks are for the top floor units only, and for the exclusive right to use. If you are looking at the roof plan, if you are looking at that, we are in addition having the elevator, the central elevator brought up to the roof so that everyone can utilize a small roof boardwalk around the perimeter of the roof. If a man dejects relative to the roof plan and relative to the plans in the general, everything that's done here has been done with the archdiocese, who is the seller of this, had to approve this. So, the roof decks will notice the setbacks, how far they are. We, in fact, part of our contractor's screening, so we do not, they're not visible from the street, you know, to serve any services such as that nature. And so, this proposal is for 6 or 9 East Fourth Street and 615 East Fourth Street is the Church. Is the existing Church a gate of heaven Church? So, this is for the subdivision. That's why they are here as a package. Okay. Tell us briefly about your community process. The community process has been, in the words my father's fear again. The opposition has been vocal. At one point in time, this is a two-year process. It was, as the mayor put it, a cooling off period. When the support did not appear to be there, and they allowed the community members to reach out to find out whether any other use of the building would be permissible. At this point in time, after nothing came forward, and I'm going to use that term loosely because we haven't any people also that the church accepted. The church has accepted again. I'm not part of what the church has or has not, because they have to present it to the church. They was put back on track in the new plans, and which is why Mr. Bessani talked about the 12-14 plans. There was a reduction in the number of units during this community process. We originally started out with 31. The original developer of this project back in 2012, which was before you, and deferred, and then withdrew at 30 years. It was before you, and you, and the other members of this project, were transferred to the church. This was the first time that we had a meeting in the church. We had a meeting in January of 2014, and then a BRA sponsored community process in 2015 again in January. We presented the plans, and again, the opposition was spirited. We believe we have the support of a number of the director butters. And they're going to voice their displeasure with it, and there's no hiding that at all. The building, again, has been vacant. It's closed as a school in 2009. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? As is customarily our case, we hear from elected officials first in support or in opposition. So Mayor's office? Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is Jerome Smith, and I am the director of Neighborhood Services for Mayor Murr and Jay Walsh. As the applicant said, this process has been going on for some time. It picked up again in February, January, February of 2014. There was a long-chooling off period, which the mayor had sought to see more of the two private inmates could have a larger discussion about what was occurring in the neighborhood. The project then picked up again. The board, again, gave another pause recently to deferral that you granted to the applicant to a lot more discussion. That discussion did happen, and there has been a series of community engagements along the way. The mayor's office and the mayor's office is just feeling that this is a land transaction between two private entities. And unfortunately, at this time, we do not feel as though a financial, a viable financial educational institution has presented itself. And you're going to hear a lot of conversation about a school and units in the neighborhood. But because we feel that a viable financial educational institution has not presented itself to Mayor's office, the Neighbor Services wants one record in support. Thank you very much. Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh. Please, this is a hearing. We do need to hear every voice. So go ahead, please. Item Chair, members of the board, John Allison from Council President Linnehands office. Given the footprint of the lot and the number of units proposed, we feel this is far more reasonable than many of the other projects that we've seen come along. So given that this is smaller than, for example, the project right across the street, and there is no viable alternative, we are also in support. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Ryan Spitz on behalf of City Council, it allows Michael Floury. We like to say that this project has created tremendous amount of anxiety in the community that has fed up because it has been overdeveloped and keeps getting more project stuff down its throat. Predictability of process would go a long way with less density and less FAR. We like to stand with our neighbors and oppositions converting this beautifully community asseted to condos. We like to wrap this up. Thank you, Madam Chair, women, members of the board. My name is Sean Pierce. I'm here on behalf of State Senator Linda Dorsey-A-Foury. And the Senator would like to join Council of Floury in opposition to this project and ask for your denial. Thank you. One of Madam Chair, members of the board, Gary Wefster, Officer City Council at Large-Mashowoo. Our officers had numerous calls in regards to this project and the Council and staff attended numerous meetings. And we will stand with the community and we are on record of opposition. Thank you. Good morning, Madam Chair, women, members of the board. My name is David Beal. I'm with the Office of State Representative Nick Collins. And we also are in opposition to this project. Thank you. Morning, Madam Chair, members of Board of Law and Powers on behalf of City Council of Lodge, Stephen Murphy. Council of Lodge, Stephen Murphy would just like to echo the comments made by Council of Floury's office. The Council has met and discussed this matter with numerous members of the South Boston community. He's aware of the outrageous parking problems that already exist and feels that this will only exacerbate that situation. Council of Lodge, as usual, stands tall with the citizens of South Boston. Good morning, Madam Chair and members of the board. My name is Michael Joseph Donovan. I am the senior and longest continuous serving elected official in the City of Boston as your clerk of the courts. I stand firmly opposed to any plan to convert this building over into condominiums. But I would ask respectfully that since I am one of the four people that will speak in opposition to the plan that you allow me to speak further when opposition is presented. Thank you. Thank you very much. Next, I need four community, five community people who are here to speak in support. Please, if there are zoning issues, please address your comments directly to the zoning. That's what we are here to hear today. And then I would like five people who are here in opposition. What we are going to do, please, is send out a list, a pad of paper. Please put your name and your address down and whether you are in support or in opposition. And we will save that for the file. So, five people in support, five people in opposition. Let's hear from the opposition first. Can I have five people, please? And if there are fewer, I'm fine with that because there is the list going around. And again, to request that you are comments directly reflect the violations that have been cited on this proposal. Go ahead. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. Am I able to be heard down back? Well, we are the ones who need to hear you so we can... Madam Chair, I agree with you. But with all the comments that were made by the developers, those of us down back in opposition couldn't hear anything. So, how do we rebut what they say? That's why I want my remarks to be heard. Please, sir. The zoning case. I know you want me to deal directly and forthright with the issues. I have a preliminary comment that will take 20 seconds. It is no longer true that we do not have a viable tenant in the form of a charter school. The best charter school in Boston and perhaps the best in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. That stands ready to come in and occupy that building full time, either by lease or by ownership. Okay, and now, before us is this application for 31 units. Please address the zoning issues on... I'm sorry, 26 units. So please address... When I address those issues of how many condominiums I'm proposed, I need to tell this board, but not just talking about brick and mortar. We do not oppose development in our neighborhood. In fact, both sides of the issue fully support the mayor's ambitious program for 53,000 new and additional units, whether they be condominiums or apartments, for all levels of fiscal responsibility and affordability. But it's more than just a variance Madame Chair and members. It is a quality of life issue. I firmly believe in him convinced that had we had the full 2,000 signatures at the BRA hearing and a viable tenant, we wouldn't be here today because the plan would have been denied. Since it was not at the time I come here today to say that we do have over 2,000 signatures, a hundred that are direct the butters, and the remainder is our butters to our butters. And we do have a viable tenant. I would respectfully ask that you respect our quality of life issue here. Young people with children are moving out of South Boston. We don't have quality education for children from grade 7 to 12. We are not in competition with the South Boston Catholic Academy, for they stop teaching at grade 6. People are moving out in droves because they can't send their kids to school. Why do you move to a neighborhood for your church and the school for your children? It's being taken away from us. For a hundred years since the Civil War that building has been used as a school. I respectfully submit, have a little compassion for us and our neighbors, our children, and our grandchildren. Give them an alternative quality education by allowing them an opportunity to go into a charter school right in our neighborhood. Now the argument about busing and congestion is species. They don't bus children in anymore, not the Boston Collegiate. That's first and foremost. It's an opportunity for our kids who live in a neighborhood to go to school and in a neighborhood. If your child doesn't qualify for an exam school, you don't have a grade 7 to 12. If you kind of afford the Woodward School, Ursula and Academy, Boston College High School, Zavarian, your boys and girls don't get an opportunity for a quality education grade 7 to 12. This is more than brick and mortar as I said, Madam. This is about the fabric of our community. We don't need people moving out. We welcome new folks coming in, but we'd like to keep and reveal the old folks that have grown up in the neighborhoods. Our grandparents, parents, and we are trying to preserve the school so our kids can stay in their own community. I would respectfully ask by way of relief that you outright deny this application for our variants, or at the very least you deny it without prejudice to be nude at a later date, and give we that have now risen up in one of our voices heard to see if we can deal with the oddstriestists and when that PNS expires, allow us to go in and show we can maintain it as a school. Thank you so very much. Hi, my name is Mary Mail-R-E. I'm a life-long self-possed citizen and a gate heaven parishioner. Can you please give us your address please? 618 East Broadway self-possed them. Thank you. I am a mother of seven children who have all attended this charter school. They all attend a gate heaven school as well, and I attend a gate heaven school as well. I want to go on support of charter school. The charter schools are viable. It's a very great school by kids have all gotten very good education in that school, and they've gotten very good scholarships coming out of that school. So that school is a wonderful school, and I want to go on bracket saying that. Thank you very much. Thank you. Good morning and all these gentlemen, members of the board. My name is William G. McDonough. I live at 34G Street in self-possed and just a short thing on me. I was a member of the gate of heaven parish council for six years. I was the director of the gate heaven C.Y.O. from 1978 to 1989. I am presently the chairman fundraiser for the gate heaven C.Y.O. and the chairman of the alumni board for the C.Y.O. I'm also a part of your member of the international brotherhood electrical workers walk along three. So I know construction, I know buildings, and there's a lot of stuff that this building is in district peer. Well there was a school there and I moved down the street, and nothing was done with the building. So what district peer was done to the building, I have no idea. But it was an operating school licensed by the building to plop and I.S.D. It was nothing wrong with the building. The building has been a school forever. It should be remain a school. I know you don't want to hear other comments about what's going on here. And one thing that's been left out is that next door is the church. The divide in this property. We have a church that can seat 1200 people. Now if I own Anthony's peer fall, and I want to build a commonan next door, and I took all my pocket away and had no pocket for my restaurant, would you allow that? Well this church has 1200 people that can sit in that church at one time. Upstairs and downstairs. Now you're going to take a nap pocket away. How's this church going to operate with no pocket? So what we're doing here today to the board, we're asking the board, I know you just want to hear about variances and stuff, but there's two buildings there. There's not one building. You're looking at the plans for the school. You say you got pocket for the school, which is going to be a commonan. That's pocket. What happens to the church? What happens to the community? This is the archtaiyar sin. Every meeting I went to, and I just went every meeting I went to. And I went to meetings at the dawn of the brain tree of the chancery. I met with the chancellor, Jim McDonough and the other chancellor. I've been with the elected officials. I've been at just about every meeting that other people haven't been at. And they agree that this building shouldn't be sold. For one reason, the church takes the money and waste it, and then they're in hawk again. And that's what's going to happen. We have already sold two buildings. There was four buildings on this property for this church. Two are already massive construction condominium projects. This is the third one left. They sell this building. They have nothing left. The plan of the archtaiyar sin is to close our church. It was slated for closing during redistricting or reconfiguration when they had it. They plan on closing this church. The way they close it is to fool the people and thinking they're doing the right thing. Sell the rectory. Sell the parish hall. We'll fix the church. Now, sell the school. Pay off the bill. Oh, it's 10 years from now that church has gone. So as far as you're over, I don't get off the references. First off, roof decks. This is 50 feet away from the church. Now, you're talking about roof decks and people on roofs during church and things don't want to. We're talking about parking. Not just for these new needs, but for the church. What happens now? I'm asking you. What happens when there's a funeral? There's no parking or a funeral or a wedding. Are they going to double park? Are we going to allow double parking on the street? Where are we going with that? So now you get a parking problem? You have a roof deck problem. We've got a community problem. Where the school is needed. It's a school bill. That's what it's all about. We're not here looking at plants. We're looking at zoning. There aren't many buildings left in the city and Boston and mine, South Boston can do a school. My last thing is, we're looking for your help. I know this board's making this decision. I know people. I know a few people. I know you're making this decision today. I want to say a thing about this high. But not about just a building that has 40 spaces for 26 units. I'm talking about a community. I'm talking about a church that needs parking, needs the ability so we can keep our church over. We'll get up and they'll talk about the school condos for kids. I'm talking about saving my parish. I'm talking about saving my church, saving my community. And that's what I'm talking about today. My last thing was to be as I leave it. It's the church, the outside does not have a bit of track record. I'm just being on one thing. St. Mary's needs plastic if you remember, $850,000. They sold it for, like, 19 days later, the gentleman sold it $2.5 million. He walked away with $1.8 million. These people could get this variance today. They could sell this going tomorrow for $10 million. It's way underestimated in value. It's worth $10 million to get enough of five. So there's plenty of problems with it. The deal stinks. There's a lot of stuff going on. I'm asking you to look at my community, my church, my whole self-awesome. And everything's a domino effect. The director of the butter's, you know, people get up and they're going to support this. Probably their family, their friends, the director of the butter's who are doing it. They're getting a pocket spot. I don't know if that's legal. But if you think about what's going to happen here, but I'm asking you for my community that I've been involved with greatly for over the years, and my last thing is I know a lot of poor men was, and when you leave, and you go back to say, well, who are these people from self-awesome? Think they are. Well, the people from self-awesome, you know who we are? We're the people who stopped. Ask for a plan on the self-awesome waterfront, which everyone wants to take credit for now. We're the ones who stopped the patriots. We're the ones who stopped the Red Sox. We're the ones who stopped the hell report. We're the ones who stopped the city from selling marine industrial factories, Japanese. That's who the people of self-awesome are. So now we're here once again trying to save our community. We're asking you for our help and say a note to this project. Good morning, Madam Secretary and Board Members. My name is Rich Evans. I resided 623 East Fort Street, and I consider myself an approximate butter. I live within 300 trees of the school, have been there in that area for 17 years. I have in front of me here over 2,000 signatures opposing this rezoning project. I don't know from a Democratic standpoint what you think is positive or negative, but 2,000 signatures from impacted community members that don't want to see this school go away. A lot of us sent our kids to that school, and I hope my kids' kids can go to a school there as well. We're looking to make a difference in our neighborhood. We're losing families left and right. School-ups programs are falling apart. I know it's a Democratic issue, but the only thing that keeps people there are good churches and good schools. We're asking you to consider keeping a good solid school presence in our neighborhood. Thank you. Thank you. My name is Kathleen Carol Lansdien. I live at 2 Lock Place. Lock is a little pedestrian v. alley that's directly across from the school, so I'm an immediate butter. My great-great aunt was married in the Gate of Heaven Church in the 1860s. One of the first marriages ever to take place there even before the church was fully consecrated. I have long standing roots in South Boston. Four of my husbands and my five children live in South Boston. We have a new grandchild. And I see lots of babies going up and down the street in South Boston. We have no shortage of babies. What we have is once they come to school age, they evaporate. This has been our family home since the family came from Ireland. I don't want this to be the generation that just suburbs it. On a housekeeping matter, on East Fourth, oftentimes you'll see cars parked that have no South Boston stickers. Those cars come out of that new development and directory. The lifts break on a regular basis from what we can assume. And people with cars that are too high don't park in their designated parking. Is this same kind of nonsense going to go on with this new project? Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Thank you. Everybody make sure that that that that that that that that paper is going around and make sure you put your name and address clearly on it. Anything that you would like to respond to because the issue specifically appear to be roof decks and parking. Though the parking violation related to these 26 units, it seems like you fulfilled that. We have to manage it. We have actually fulfilled the parking. We have more than enough parking relative to the code. And again, 40 parking spaces for 26 units in every one in the city will attest to. We would like to have more parking, but we're not going to be utilizing the lifts, which was just raised the moments ago in this building. Because sometimes they may break down, but that's not an upper pose. Relative to the roof deck, what I want to reiterate is these plans prior to being presented were approved. We have to talk to the road, archdiocese as well to make sure a relative is screening. They talked about the noise during the service. That's one of the reasons to set back so far. A couple other things I just want to bring out. We do in fact have some let us support as well from some of the directed buttons, which I'd like to present as well. And finally, excuse me, relative to the school. We did have a cooling off period where there were other proposals made. One of the things I want to just reiterate, the church who owns this property is the one who proposed what could and could not be developed next door. Within the church's tenants, there are certain things they believe. Certain schools will not adhere to their belief system. Therefore, on the deed restriction that we're going to be bound to, one of the requirements is we cannot repeat, cannot develop it as a school. That's part of our contract with them, which is why during this cooling off period, we sat back and let all the other talk go forward to find whether or not the church could contract with someone that would meet with the tenants. As of this time, we, again, being just a component, we don't know what has been presented to them. We are before you now with the plan that works as far as we can see for the city, that works for the code. We need certain variations and variances we agree. We believe it is a good project and we do acknowledge that there is great opposition to losing this institution. But the institution is the church, not the school, and that is staying in one of the reasons they're going to have the ability to stay is to sell this property with that cash flow they're getting. Thank you. Thank you. May I have a motion, please? Your position. No, I think we've heard five people already. So thank you. May I have a motion, please? I have a motion, please. Motion to approve with further B.R.A. Disarmity. Do I have a second? No second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries the project will move forward. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Oh, no. Oh, no. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Remember. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. You know what? You know what? You know what? So I'd like to put that hand on the market please. Thank you. Thank you. I'm going to say I have to clear out. I'm going to ask people to come line out for the firm. Mr. J. Mr. J, anybody that's going to happen to be a role in the firm of the night you're in the evening for the warm. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Any applicants here for deferral or withdrawal please come forward. I'm asking the girl to be one. And in the meantime if AB needs to change the tape please go forward too. Any withdrawals or deferrals? Okay. Is there anyone who has a withdrawal or deferral for 930 cases? Please proceed to the podium. Any minute? Go to the first case. Following POA 463-776-85 Leo Birmingham Park. The applicant here for Leo Birmingham Park. The purpose of applying the motion to final the sunset pause was 5 on the April 13, 2015. The outdoor storage of vehicles, the waiting sales and the initial requirement for 15 soldiers filled place. Violation time for 664. Other protection of conditions taken out of this for the record please. Good morning. My name is Kurt Hudson. Our building is at 15 soldiers filled place in Brighton. Tell us briefly what you're proposing. So we have a strip of property that's about 600 feet long and 40 feet wide that is Leo Birmingham 85 Leo Birmingham Parkway. Three years ago we got it re-zoned to allow us to park cars up there. Our building is down below where a heating and air conditioning company we own about 25 miles. We have a lot of vehicles and we lease some of it to our next door neighbor which is Boston Acura to allow them to park vehicles there as well. The property was very, when we bought it very dirty it was dumping, there was trucks up there, fill, we cleaned it all out, we planted trees and we just like to continue that zoning. This is for continuation of the use as essentially for ancillary parking but without a sunset clause. Correct. So indefinitely. How do the plans look Mr. Bazzotti? I do have a question. We do it here in 2009. We were directed to push the fence back. We feed and we plant and we've done lots. We have we planted over evidies all along the outside of the fence line and moved the fence line. Okay. Any other questions from the board? Does anybody here to speak and support of this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the board, John Lough from the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. We held in a butters meeting on site the media of butters are mostly businesses and industrial use. They're all in support of this. The requirements that were asked of the applicant three years ago I could see when we had the butters meeting that they did that. There's all the plantings and they made the perimeter look aesthetically pleasing so we're in full support of this. Thank you. Thank you. Anybody else to speak and support? Is anybody here in opposition? May I have a motion please? Motion approved. I'm sorry. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Any opposed? Motion approved. Motion approved. Motion approved. Motion approved. Motion approved. Motion approved. Motion approved. Motion approved. Motion approved. Motion approved. Motion approved. Motion approved. Motion approved. Motion approved. Motion approved. Motion approved. Motion approved. Motion approved. Motion approved. Motion approved. Motion approved. Motion approved. Motion approved. Motion approved. Motion approved. Motion approved. Motion approved. Motion approved. Motion approved. Motion approved. Motion approved. Motion approved. Motion approved. Motion approved. Motion approved. Motion approved. Motion approved. Motion approved. Motion approved. Motion approved. Motion approved. Motion approved. Motion approved. Motion approved. Motion approved. Motion approved. Motion approved. Motion approved. Motion approved. Motion approved. Motion approved. Motion approved. Motion approved. Motion approved. Motion approved. Motion approved. Motion approved. Motion approved. Motion approved. Motion approved. Motion approved. Motion approved. Motion approved. Motion approved. Motion approved. Motion approved. Motion approved. Motion approved. Motion approved. Motion approved. Motion approved. Motion approved. Motion approved. Motion approved. Motion approved. Motion approved. Motion approved. Motion approved. Motion approved. Motion approved. Motion approved. Motion approved. Motion approved. Motion approved. Motion approved. Motion approved. Motion approved. Motion approved. Motion approved. Motion approved. Motion approved. Motion approved. Motion approved. Motion approved. Motion approved. Motion approved. My name is Nick Ayesitak. I could please introduce your name again and how you wish to take it over managed.ką. Motion approved. I have a question for you. Nah. Assembly. Oh. Hi. Does the minister say, a model you make? In the court, What is being proposed and specifically on the sudden sudden of case what's the increase from from how many units do 15 but go ahead. I'm Steve Huyken from Bicon Architecture. I'm speaking about Southern App. The increase is from 14 units to 15 units while working within an existing space. Okay so please can you address completely Linhurst? Sure let's start with Linhurst. 4-6 Linhurst is a building owned by Cotton Square Development. It was built before the code and there used to be first floor residences. However a few years ago there was a fire and the fire not conformity lapsed and we're here before the board today to seek a conditional use permit to allow first floor residences and also seeking a variance for parking and I'll end it over to knit to discuss the the project and support details. No that's pretty pretty clear. So it's essentially because it's a neighborhood shopping district. First ground floor residential is conditional. What are the unit sizes and what is the parking proposed? So there were eight units prior to a starting and there is currently eight units the unit sizes range. They meet D&D requirements so the two bedroom units are 900 plus square feet and the three bedroom units are 1200 square feet. There is there was no parking there is no space on this lot for parking. This building was built about a hundred years ago and this functioned as an eight unit building for many many years. Thank you. You're part of the blind's localist's. Dr. Ziracquit, the question of the latest revision on the plan and one nine fifteen and they still the government plan. That is correct. Everybody here to speak in support of this proposal. I'm Gail Abel. He's the director of Office for DC so I'm sure he's supporting. Okay. The Borneo Madam Chairman members of the board, Flabio DeVega, Mayor's Office Neighborhood Service. We're here in support of this project. Bring a affordability housing to the neighborhood is very recognized and supported in the neighborhood so we're strong support of this project. Thank you. Good morning Nicole. I was from Constance's office. We'd like to go on a rocket that way and support it a project. Gary. Madam Chairman members of the board, Gary Webster, Office of City Council at Lodge, Michelle Wool. We'd like to go on a record of support. Thank you. Good morning. John Gail from the Department of Labor Development. I'm the project manager for the City of Miss Project. It's a fully funded project by its gone through several years of community process. Has it had any significant issues raised by the residents of the private square area and we are expecting a stack of construction and to build these 40 new units to be occupied in 15 months, starting from the first subject to the board's approval. It's a blessing, thank you. Thank you. Anybody who are in opposition to the Linh Pes go ahead. I'm sorry. Robert Powers on behalf of City Council at Lodge, Stephen Murphy. Council Murphy is familiar with this situation. He's in strong support of this project. Thank you. May I have a motion please on Linh Pes? Motion for approval. We will continue to be our executive. Is there exterior on the same? No. It's a renovation. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? You're all set. Thank you. Now please speak on southern Al. Sure. Oh, it's beautiful. It's beautiful. 60. Please hold on. Please give a presentation on southern Al. Sure. So just... You have a separate set of drawings or something that we're going to... I have chords over there. Are they loose? They're loose sheets, yes. Do you want... I want plants. In the meantime, can you speak to the project? Yes. Again, my name is Joe Sheridan representing COD in Square. I'm here at Steve Pike in the architect on the project. 60 Southern is part of a larger scattered site affordable housing development tech condensate together, which includes four to six linters that we just spoke about. In 2011, the board approved zoning relief for this project. It was extended in March 2014, but as part of making the project more financially feasible, common has decided to request approval for a 15th unit. And I see it's just that we get full relief for the relief that was necessary beforehand and for the 15th unit. And that's why we're here before you today. Okay. How did the clients welcome Mr. Pazani? In the meantime, is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? The garage wrapper. Go ahead. Good morning, Madam. The board and members of the board as well. My name is Pravee Distances from Hollywood Services. I would like to go and work out and support. And the comments are presented to the development of one of the TNC, Tabuk Nibble, who is the association and they will do even the direct bidder. They're all on the favor of the proposal for new development in the community. Thank you. The co-pubbers for the Council Yancey's office would like to go on record and support of this project. Thank you. Gary? Madam Jim, members of the board, Gary Webster, Office of City Councilor Adlaj Michelle Wu. We'd like to go on record and support. Good morning, John. The Department of the Name of the Development. Again, the projects have been funded once for the NERCO and renews. Senator Berl will be static construction during November. Madam Chair, Councilor Murphy would also be in support of this project to bring some more affordable housing to this area. Thank you. I've been sitting here in opposition. So this is basically an update of the request that you had had a few years ago and it's to increase the number of units from 14 to 15. Are there any questions from the board? May I have a motion please? Motion, please. Can I say that? All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? This is new construction, right? No. It's via, without Gary decided. Okay. Thank you. You're all set. Good luck. Thank you. Following VIA, 449-922, 1032, Dorchester Avenue. The purposes are directly three-story, three-unit residential buildings. Frontside, roof deck, head house, or housing, high-level bases. Violation Chronicle 65, section 9. Love went to the insufficient. I went to 65, section 9, fully agreed to with excessive. I went to 65, section 9, side yard is insufficient. I went to 65, section 9, right yard is insufficient. I went to 65, section 9, while running insufficient. I went to 65, section 9, open space, and insufficient payment address will directly be clicked. Hello, Adam Burns, 609. Second streets, south Boston. That's Susan's. Tim Johnson, architect 190-old colony, Av. Boston. Madam Chair, members of the board. This parcel is located in a three-family triple-decker 2000s square foot lot zoning district. We are proposing a three-family detached triple-decker on a roughly 2400 square foot lot. Up until mid-century had a building on it, please refer to the historical map in your handout. We view this as an urban design opportunity to reconnect the residences along Bellfort Street. Two-jaw Chester Ave via this proposed three-family. We've reviewed this with the BRA plan or for the area, and he is an agreement on this point. The corner site has two direct debuts. A parking lot of a funeral home to the north, and a two-family to the east. We do not have support of the parking lot of butter because the building wood cast shadows on the parking lot and would affect several of their trees. The two-family of butter was neither four nor against the project. Now, lastly, these are two bedroom two bath units with four-awesome parking spaces. Okay. It doesn't be clear what's on the site now. It's fake. Fake. That's not wrong with that. Probably to the since the building burned down in the last century. Okay. I'll look this design on the side of it. Any other questions? Any other questions? Anybody who's speaking support of this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the Board of Health, Ben Ali Mezovs, neighborhood services, would like to go on record in opposition. As the applicants stated they did meet with the butters at the butters meeting. They weren't able to come to consensus. All immediate butters are opposed. They've also met with the Civic Association who is opposed to this project as well. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the Board, Joe McGeckman, City Council, Frank Baker's office. We're also going to go on record. We're not supporting the project. I think in general many of the butters believe that the landscape and having two commercial and a lot of greenery, they had to put a three-decker up in the middle of both of these projects on door chests or abs just would not fit the landscape and we are in opposition. Thank you. Does anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition? My name is address please. My name is Tom Murphy. I'm my family owns the Murphy funeral which does directly about this lot. We are against this. This council vacant office had mentioned about the section of door chests or abs our building. Our funeral home is set back from door chests or abs as well as the church which is the next block over. This house that they are proposing is right up against the sidewalk. It just wouldn't fit in. In addition to that it's going to be blocking the view of our building. We've been there for since 1930. There hasn't been something on this lot since my whole life which is 45 years. This house that was there did burn down over 45 years ago. It's also going to take directly a three trees that go right along our parking lot line flowering trees that we are going to lose if this house does get built. That's going to block our sign. So again we are against it. Thank you. Anybody else to speak in support or opposition? Your name and address please? My name is Cornel Mello. My address is 1048 door chests to Avenue which is right across the street from this lot that we are talking about. From fields corner all the way up to our property is the first green site you will see on door chests to Avenue is the church. There are no other sites have greenery. That little light in Murphy funeral home. That the last piece of green until we get to the park before Columbia. That light is the smallest light that is available and there are many variances that have to be made just to put a house there. And then to put a house there was a slab that is dangerous on the corner. There is very little parking, a two family two bedroom apartment that is four. There are two cars in each apartment or condominium. So that is not four parking space. That is eight unique. There is a traffic light right in front, a big traffic light right in front of the lot where they put it. They have to find somewhere or remove that traffic light. It is very there. I don't want to have a condominium or purchase a condominium with the first thing I look out my front window is a traffic light. Thank you. Another thing on that, they only show there are two sides of the house on their plans. The other two side we don't know what the side face of Murphy funeral home looks like or the back of the house look like. The front have overhang over in the front with balconies and porches and that almost that is right there by the sidewalks. So we are opposing to bring another home that is not safer to communities. Blind spot and it is only one of the only last green spot in that whole area. Thank you. Briefly, do you speak to some of the issues you have heard? Yes, Madam Chair. The funeral home to the north of us has roughly 180 feet of frontage on Dorchester Ave. A lot of that is paved parking lot. We have about 24 feet of frontage on Dorchester Ave. So also if you go to the website of the funeral home, all the directions to the funeral home are from the north. Please address some of the issues raised about your project, about the parking, about the design. Yes, of course, Madam Chair. The parking, we have four off-street parking spaces so we do not need relief for parking. The parking is placed at the rear of the building, hopefully out of sight from Dorchester Ave. We have pulled the building back four and a half to five feet along Dorchester and Belford Street for planting area and a low-middle fence, much like the south end. The side of the building that faces the parking lot is blank because it's a parking lot and rough against the parking line. The rear of the building has windows just like the south and west elevations. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Currently owned property. Well, current. I'm all current children. So we're under agreement to purchase contingent upon property. Are they the families who home burned down 50 years ago? I believe so. I'm not sure the owner of the property is property. They owned the two family of budding the property, but they recently sold it. Yes. So may I have motion please? I'm motion for the nine private flats. I'll second them. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion does not. I mean the motion carries. So good luck next time. Thank you, Madam Chair. I'm Mr. Board. Probably VLV 4, 6, 3, 1, 5, 0, 37th of A.O. Street. Services to change our people. Places of assembly. Church. Tax single family. Place of assembly. The tax single family. Traditional. Traditional phone. We're thinking done with a single family home. Violation. 50 section 28. Transitional housing is traditional. Within a 3S sub-discord. An article 50 section 43. No proposed parking. Our three parking for four goddess. Aiming at the full record. Malika McDonald-Rostan. 37 in total. Can you be speaking? Thank you. Briefly tell us what you're proposing for the single family home. We're renovating the older building, the existing property. And we are seeking for transitional housing for up to 12 women. And it will also be supportive housing with a community room. And it will be longer term, not short term housing. So it's a supportive housing of 12 women. Yes. And what does that mean? It would be transitional housing for homeless women. With case management and supportive services put into place. As well as in resident services to support groups. That is long time. Yes, on-site. Is it the contract through the state or? No, we're a nonprofit organization, a private nonprofit organization. I do have materials if I can. Sure. Look at how. Yes. How do the plans look, Mr. Pazani? Draw the draft. I'm just a few minutes currently. Is a single family dwelling? Yes, it is. It's currently a single family dwelling. It is under renovation. We've got it out the building. Because it's originally for the building? No. It's a property that's been owned by the mosque. We've put in the fire sprinklers and the fire alarms to bring it up to code. How would you outreach to get a family homeless women to get a family homeless? We are a nonprofit organization. I'm the national director of our transitional housing. This will be one of 13 facilities that we operate. It will be the first to Massachusetts. We reach out to other community development organizations, faith-based organizations. We do an interview process and do screen women before they come into the program to make sure they're ready to develop themselves and work on themselves in a transitional setting. Does anybody here have your support of the proposal? Good morning, Madam Chair and members of the board, Kaira Fox, Mayors Office of Neighborhood Services. We like to go on record and support. They have met with the neighbors and project right and came to an agreement. They also are committed to being community partners for the Grove Hall, Roxbury, Dorchester area, and we look forward to working with them. Good morning, Nicole Paz from Constaniancy's Office. We like to go on record and support. Good morning, my name is E-Mem, Tyler Mehdi. We are the most steps involved with IKNA relief and we support this project at 150%. Good morning, Madam Chair and members of the board. Today, I'm going to belong to the behalf of Boston City Councilor Tito Jackson and I'd like to go record and support. Thank you. Madam Chair and members of the board, Paul Solvin. I'll be honest with the council out loud. Michael Flarey, let's go record and support. Madam Chair, good morning. It's the members of the board. I have a letter that's been submitted. The three neighborhood associations in that area, the Interville Street Normandy Street Resonance Association, Stan Wistreet Columbia Rose, Resonance Association, Devon Normandy and Roswick Street Resonance Association support this project. Thank you. And who are you, sir? I'm sorry. For him, I'll take you to the Executive Director of Project Right. Located at 320 A. Blue, Hullambe, Dorchester, Mass, 02121. Thank you. Thank you. Is anybody here to speak in our position? May I have a motion, please? Motion. Motion to the truth. Is there any exterior work that does that work? Not currently, no. Is there a second? That's a second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? You're all set for the block. Thank you. Probably be away 456, 223. 108 to 110 are. Sustrie. Services to change actors from a one family store and hands along with a four family office and hands along. We close the changing height of the structure for 2.5 districts and resturring dwellings. The next in the red. Violation is out of the 55th Section 40, R3 Parking is insufficient. High to 55, 6, 8. Multi-family uses for being high to 55, Section 9. Additional water areas are insufficient. High to 55, Section 9. Including area ratio is excessive. High to 55, Section 9. Frontier is sufficient. High to 55, Section 9. Side-yard is sufficient. David Andrews will arrive. John Moran, L. Pine Advisory Services. L. Pineway, Boston Mass. Joining me at the table. Jonathan Brizzett, the attorney for the project. Architect. Architect. At 26th, Arndtick Street, Brookline Mass. There we are on. On this. Oh, okay. Great. It's next to the Collinsworth House on South Street. So tell us briefly what you're proposing. The Appellance Experiences in Building Code Relief. To change the occupancy from a one-family store and here salon to a four-family office and here salon. Locus is in the South Street local convenience sub-district rather than a residential district of the Jamaica Plain Neighborhood Code. Appellance seeks to build out on the front in rear of the structure, changing it from a two and a half story to a three-story building. The violation cited a parking under Article 55, Section 40, 40.2. Only the additional units used to compute parking requirements. There are three new proposed units and the table J1 to 3. There are three parking spaces required. The Appellant owns 90 South Street where there are six parking spaces. He has been in business running a company called Peace of Mind Inc, which supports elderly services. Three of those parking spaces at 90, which is the other side of the front's worth house, would be available for parking. In addition, the Appellant was in conversation with the immediate butter at 112 and had prepared a license to pass and repass if I may submit a copy to the board. Through miscommunication, the immediate... Sorry, what was that just now? What did you just say? It was a prepared license to be signed by the immediate... Between the developer and the immediate butter at 112 to permit crossing over her rear parking lot into the rear of this building in order to put the dumpster in first or in construction so it would not be on the street. There was also a conversation to permit pass and repass on an annual basis to park three motor vehicles there. Through miscommunication, on Thursday, I got an email from her attorney saying that they were opposing that we were to have no further conversation or dialogue with the immediate butter. She was here this morning and the pro-wrestling developer and her had a conversation. She expressed her concerns that she was instructed to be here by her attorney. We will continue to have a dialogue because I would suggest her attorney is talking about an easement which we have never discussed with her. It's a right to pass and repass. Tell us about the residential units. What size are you proposing that they are? If I may go through the FAR, I would suggest to the board there are only two violations because it's in an LC district. One is FAR, the code requires one what is being proposed is 1.5 in parking. No, nothing. Combined. We're totally combined. That the multi-family, and I have submitted a copy of the code in the tables, a multi-family is allowed as a matter of right above the first story of the code in a local convenience district. Also in a local convenience district, the setback, frontage is zero inside yard. Setback is zero. Again, I have attached the applicable code codes in the submittal buttons before the board. I would suggest that there is just two items of relief, FAR, and parking. The location is on South Street, which is service by busing buses and is within walking distance of the Forest Hills station. In addition, there will be three parking spaces available at 90 South Street and hopefully through continued dialogue, you will have parking at the rear. Yes, again, give us the unit sizes please. Yes, there are four units. The two front units are roughly 750. They come in at 7.44 and 7.63 square feet. The two rear units are slightly smaller at 6.44 square feet each. But the two-time units you're proposing as two-band units. Correct. One of the problems is that it's very small. It just makes it hard for one bedroom. Well, my plan is very efficient and there's a very generous combined living dining and kitchen area. The bedrooms are 11 by 11 sticks and 10 by 11 sticks. I felt that they were fairly reasonably sized. I think through the efficiency lack of any circulation area that would take away from the total square footage that these are fairly spacious units. I agree that you've heard of the efficiency. But the efficiency comes at the cost of building co-relief. If I may address the building co-relief, we are going to put fire-rated gratings in this point with draw building co-relief. So in motion, I can go through that. To withdraw. If I may withdraw building co-relief on the night of the trip. So this is just here, though, however, today for zoning co-relief. Correct. Yes. And if I may add Madam Chairperson, the owner plans on occupying one of the four units and one of his employees plans on occupying another. Is the access to all four units through the front between the two rooms? The access, there is a walkway along the right side of the building that will lead to a covered porch and entry to a stair coming up to the units. It's a long side of the right side. Yes. And there's two things of egress. The single egress, it's less than required distance from the most remote corner of the building that would allow it. And it's only a free story building fully sprinkler. So it is allowed as a single exit. Are these your city rentals? Yes, they're rentals. I might add that there was a site meeting which had the full support of the attendees at the site meeting. I have filed a petition with 69 immediate residents supporting it. The Jamaica Plain neighborhood Council zoning committee voted to support it. Any other questions? Anybody here who speak in support of this proposal? Good morning Madam Chair and members of the board. We would like to go on record of support of this application. We do ask the applicant to continue working with the direct butters regarding the placement of the dumpster and parking confedering. Madam Chair and members of the board, Hannah Smith on behalf of District City Councilor, we'd like to echo Julian sentiments and go on record and support and encourage the applicant. We would like to thank the applicant to continue to work with you better. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Paul Solver, City Councilor, at Lodge, Michael Flarity, equating sentiments of the mayor's office as well as District Councilor, would like to go on record support. The morning, my name is Damien Bonitas. I own the barbershop. I went to the South Street. And due to the poor conditions of the building, I feel like I'm scaring away some of my clients. And my business has been in a decline. So I'm here in its favor of the conditions, improvements for the building. Thank you. Any other support? Yes. My name is John Lovett. My property immediately butts the rear of Cornel McDonald and my Cornel McDonald's property. I'm just sat down with him yesterday and took a look at the plans that he has. And based on what he's shown me, which is that his project will be building on the same footprint as the building that's existing. And that it won't be any higher than the building next to it or I have no problem with this project. And he and I have been talking about possibility of some access to my property and possibly parking on my property as well. Thank you. Thank you. Anybody here in opposition? In the future, it would be helpful if there isn't a parking agreement. If something came through as ancillary parking so that we understood completely what the parking resolution is. May I have a motion please? Motion for approval with the design review for the new work conference. Next, second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? You're all set. Good luck. Thank you very much. Calling B-O-A-4658-215-1511 to 1525 Washington Street. Yeah, looking for Washington. I'm going to get back to that one. I'm going to get back to that one. I'm going to get back to that one. I'm going to get back to that one. I'm going to get back to that one. I'm going to get back to that one. I'm going to get back to that one. I'm going to get back to that one. I'm going to get back to that one. I'm going to get back to that one. I'm going to get back to that one. I'm going to get back to that one. I'm going to get back to that one. I'm going to get back to that one. I'm going to get back to that one. I'm going to get back to that one. I'm going to get back to that one. I'm going to get back to that one. I'm going to get back to that one. I'm going to get back to that one. I'm going to get back to that one. I'm going to get back to that one. I'm going to get back to that one. I'm going to get back to that one. I'm going to get back to that one. We'll contain two separate structures. The violation of Article 50 Section 37, all about the planning district, Article 50 Section 44, two buildings on the same one, Article 50 Section 44, two dwellings on one line, Article 50 Section 19. The dwelling unit in basement is traditionally used, Article 50 Section 20, Outspied 5 in design, access to housing and durability, and Article 50 Section 43, Outspied 5 in design, access to housing and durability. The amenant measure for the right place. Good morning, Madame Chair. Members of the board, my name is Cynthia Les, and I am an attorney at Nixon Peabody, located at 100th Summer Street. I'm joined by the developer, Joe Daganji, and the architect, Peter van Kovie, from Urban Corps Development, located at 67th chemistry in Boston. We're here before you today for just 407 Dudley and 78 Forest, so I'm assuming 409 Dudley will come after us. But if you give me a brief moment, I can just give you some background on those. That's okay. So we're here to consolidate three parcels into one, and to keep the two existing buildings that are on the parcels, 407 Dudley and 78 Forest Street. The plan is to change the occupancy at 407 Dudley from a firehouse to residential, seven residential units and one commercial unit, and to change the occupancy at 78 Forest from office space to two residential units. We've had extensive meetings with the community. We've been working in compromising with a different civic association to the point where there is a tremendous amount of support for this proposal, and we're excited to move forward. Okay, I have a question. I have a sort of drawing stage 20 January 20th, and I'm going to use the operative drawings. January 2015, are these the operative drawings? I, Peter Vanco, architect on the project. Yes, those are. But the drawings I have in front of me can buy a horoscope. And these are the operative drawings. Could you restate the question? The drawings that I have in front of me are buying the firm of horoscope associates. Then no, that's... That's... That's horoscope associates is 409. We're 407 Dudley and 78 Forest. We've not had a certain drawings. 407. I understand that you're separating out the presentation of 407, 409. Could you explain the relationship between the two? Okay. Is that odd? There are two separate development groups. The sellers of the property, LaLoncia, sold Urban Coord development, which is my company, 407, and 78 Forestry. We did close on the same day, but 409 is a separate development. So you are the applicant for 407 and 78 Forest. Peter Van Gogh, yes. Okay. And so this is a request for nine... nine residential units and one commercial. Correct. Is there residential use in the basement? On both buildings there is both 78 Forest and 409. I'm sorry, 407. And tell us what they are. The residential in 78 would be a first floor in basement duplex, three bedroom. And then on 407 it is a ground floor of basement walk out three bedroom with a den. Is this the main building of LaLoncia's main building? No, 409, which is the police station, is where they operate out of now. 407 is the fire station, which is vacant. Okay. And is there any living space in the basement at 78? Yes, that would be the duplex. Is there any bedrooms in the basement in either case? Yes. Yes. But we are planning to close up, because I'm looking at 78, and I do not see a basement appointment. You're looking at which? 78 Forest. Here. Do you have 78? Can you please bring that up to the architect? Sure. And what's the floor to ceiling height? This is a table. It's a table that you can't see. Just use the plants. Ten. And some. And some. And some. And some. And some. And some. And some. And some. And some. Can you please tell us what the flow to ceiling height is? 9 feet in the basement. 9 feet. Okay. Any other questions from the board? How do the clients move to the design? I'll give you a minute. I look at some of the items. They're at the fire station. And please can you address the off street parking the design offer? I can speak to that. The off street parking is accomplished via some of the open space that's currently on the line. The law is currently paved. What is not building is currently asphalt. We're taking advantage of that space. 78 forest has what appears to be an addition that was done in a later days. That part of the original building. We are actually proposing the removal of that. Through the removal of that rear addition, we accomplished turnaround ability. And therefore able to produce a one-to-one ratio for all of the residential units for parking. That's on your property. Correct. It's entirely on our property. That is correct. Anybody get to speak and support of this proposal? Kira. Good morning Madam Chair and Members of the Board. Kira Fox, May is off to the neighborhood services. We like to go on record and support this did start back in December. We have had a number of community meetings with both 407 and 409 separately. As it stands right now, we do support this project as long as they continue the conversation and do sign the MOU agreement that will allow two residential units to be at an affordable rate. 70% AMI for five years, as well as they're going to do some commercial development, which was asked for by the community and some community improvement to the garden next door. Good morning Madam Chair and Members of the Board. Daniel Polanco, behalf of Boston City Council, Tito Jackson, would also like to go record and support. Ed Quinn, the mayor's office, comments, thank you. Madam Chair and Members of the Board, Gary Webs there, Officer City Councilor Atlarge, Michelle Wu, we'd like to go on record and support. Madam Chair and Members of the Board, Paul Saldener, and we have City Councilor Atlarge, Michael Flarity, with the letter going record and support. Thank you. The unit for the for sale rental. It's all right. Do you do some progress for the mayor? Yes. What from square? Have you selected the contract for the square? Not yet. Are you in support or opposition? Opposition. Okay. Anybody else in support? Okay. Opposition. Hi, my name is Eliza Parade. I work at Dudley Street Neighborhood Initiative, 504 Dudley Street. And I'm here on behalf of the DSNI staff and board and opposition of the project. I have a letter from the board. Can I bring it up? Yes. Well, my name is Paul Bothwell, four Woodville Terrace in Roxbury. I have, I'm a member of the board of directors of the DSNI, the elected board of directors. I think that's significant. From almost 30 years, I've been a board member. It's about the life of the SNI, Dudley Street Neighborhood Initiative. I've lived in the community for 40 years. And so today I as a member of the board of the SNI and as a resident, I represent residents, thousands of residents that are members of the SNI, this resident led community movement, community transportation movement. And those people then adhere to a shared vision, to share values, to a shared mission of what we deeply desire this community to become over time and how we proceed. So what is your opposition to this proposal? Okay. What's it based on? So that it informs us of what the neighborhood concerns maybe. Yeah. Well, the opposition is, is the part of who we are, is building a community. We collectively, the people build the community that is high quality, that is diverse, that is vibrant in collaboration with community partners. The developers at 407 Dudley and 78 Forest have not been collaborative partners. And so in regard to specifics raised by neighbors, by residents, we object to the lack of any affordable housing units in the project. As of last night, that we would know, I mean, nothing to last night, a lack of commitment to following neighborhood standards for workforce. That is for hiring local residents, people of color and women on the construction team. We object to a small unit and small bedroom sizes that are not consistent with the SNI design standards that meet the needs of family in the community. And we object to, that is the unwillingness to consider meaningful community benefits, including, okay, putting a number of things. And we find that this developer has not been in specific zoning things like, I mean specific, zoning issues like parking issues. And then this broader scope of simply not willing to be a collaborative partner in a community that works together for the common good. Thank you. Okay. And then. Thank you. We did hear today that they're willing to negotiate on some things, but this is the first time that the response. So we're looking forward to negotiating after today. Thank you. And other speakers should please, if you have additional concerns, put them on the record. But if your concerns have already been stated, just put your name on the record, okay? Hi, my name is Lorraine Wheeler and I live at 85 Moreland Street. And we have a neighborhood association called the Roxbury Path Forward. And we met with the developer with the neighborhood association that represents the butterers on Forest Street and Mount Pleasant Avenue. And that is the Mount Pleasant Avenue Forest and Vine Street neighborhood association. And although there are some attractive features of the proposal and he did come out with me with the community, they just, we were unable, you know, to have a signed memorandum of understanding. And one could say we ran out of time, but as a developer said that they've been working on this quite some time, but they were never able to come to an agreement, particularly with the butterers that live close to the project. So we're going to concur with Mayor's office and with what was just said by the Electric Neighborhood Initiative that we wish they had come forward. And we hope that the negotiation will go on. Thank you. Madam Chair, I'm Steve Members of the Board. My name is Jorge Martinez. I sit on the board of directors for the Dudley Street Neighborhood Initiative, as well as the Dudley Neighbors Inc. The Land Trust. And so my colleagues have just gone over the reasons for our position, as well as us looking forward to sitting down with the developer to craft out an idea. Thank you. My name is Robert Haas. I'm a member of the Dudley Street Neighborhood Initiative, and I sit on their Sustainable Development Committee, which reviewed this project. And some of it's earlier incarnations. I'm here speaking in opposition because we pressed in a number of ways for the inclusion of affordable units in this project, especially when it was for the whole building, and we met resistance. So for that reason, the developers have not really concluded any kind of a memory that we're understanding with the community. I stand in opposition. Thank you. Have a question, Jane. Are these public buildings? No, they're probably on. These were owned by New Estra, right? No. Not La La too. Sorry, not La Lianza, okay? No, you've bought them from another non-profit. Yes. Is there an open sale process? Yeah, it was on on us. It's nine units, not required to do affordable. We've been negotiating with the community for at least a year and a half. Our initial project was much different, larger unit sizes. The community wanted to see one-to-one parking ratio. They wanted to see commercial space in order to accommodate that. We had to shrink the size of the unit. We had to remove the back half of the forest street. And of course, we've been doing so. We lost five bedrooms. So the bedroom comp had to shrink in order to accommodate what the community needed. It was interesting to get that they wanted bigger units, but they can't have everything. In addition to that, we are income restricting voluntarily. Two residential units, the 70% AMI, for a period of five years with a 2.5% increase is after that. And then on the commercial space, we've capped the rent on that for a period of five years, and which is CPI increases. Are those, is that memorializing the MOU or the last time you released how you handled that? We are in the process of working out the MOU with Mount Pleasant. We have a supportive Mount Pleasant, which is the neighborhood group that the project sits in. And as a Friday, we finalized all this, and then they went to go to the board again. Are there any other questions? And I'd draw the board's attention to the VRA's recommendation. In the meantime, Karen, did you have something to add? Just in case you guys had questions. They are new to Roxbury. They also are doing a project over near Suffolk, jewelers. So I believe that they will be invested in the community as conversations that we will definitely be able to keep going. Thank you. May I have a motion, please? I'm going to make a motion for the fall and the reason that I think the project is a worthwhile project, but it's clear that there's not been a fall in the public. I think that it's interesting that even if this laid out to have so many in an opposition to a project that has been ongoing for a while. So I suspect that the agreements range or thought about need to be finalized. Rather than trying to operate on, well, memorandums, understanding after the fact, I'd like to see the opportunity for the community to develop together and make them fact. May I have a second? I would like to second that motion and reiterate the North American findings that I think are a lot of stakeholders who are part of this problem. This is a B.C.P. I second the motion. Also just as reference point, the B.R.A. has recommended denial without prejudice as the unit sizes are less than metro or T.O.E. minimum requirements. So there's a motion that's sent all those in favor. Any opposed? The date please. You'll have a date of August 18th in 11th, 30th, August 18th in 11th, 30th. I'm going to call back B.O.A. 461404493 Street. The purpose is to change our capacity from a police station to 9 residential units, the complete renovation, violations out of the 50 section 19 residential dwelling unit. First law, the investment to take additional use, Article 56, 403, minimum 5355, and the institution. And it has been a little record. Hi, I'm Mark O'Battreand. We have offices at 301-305 Dudley Street, part of his Alia property crew, and part of the owners of the project. Madam Chair, members of the board, my name is Attorney Nick Sizzula from McDermott, Milleer, 131 Oliver Street, that floor here in Boston. Mark O'Battreand is from Boston Technology and Security Services, the Alia owner of the property at 409 Dudley Street in Yelp, here today. And the Phil Rusco, two down for me is the E.C. Museum. We hold on one minute. Technology needs to catch up with us. Sure, absolutely. Also? Yes, sir. Five. Ten minutes? Ten minutes? We can go ahead. Ten minutes? Okay. Are we good to go for ten minutes early? We're going to take a ten minute break. So we'll be back at 1135 in the meantime. We should be all set. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. The board of appeal is back in session. We will hear this case. And after this case, we will ask for people who are requesting the forals for ten thirty and eleven thirty. Please go ahead and tell us what you're proposing. Yes, Madam Chair. Thank you. So our proposal is for 409 Dudley Street. The proposal is to change the occupancy of an existing building located on the corner of Dudley Street, Forest Street in Mont Pleasant Avenue, from a police station to nine residential unit building with interior renovations all within the existing building envelope. The proposal includes nine parking spots, which does people a one-to-one parking ratio as required by the zoning code in this district. And we believe this proposal will enable the appellant to improve and revitalize this underutilized property site with so much needed residential units in this portion of Rocksburg. We have engaged in over eight months of positive community outreach with several community groups located in the area, as well as callus and numerous discussions with the mayor's office of neighborhood services and city council Jackson's office. So this is for nine rolling units. Yes. Is that what's the conditional use is because it's a neighborhood shopping and there's going to be ground floor residential use. Yes. Okay. And how large are each unit? What's unit size range? So the current unit size range with the plans today are the one that the smallest one-bedroom unit is 735 square feet. The smallest two-bedroom unit is 850 square feet. No three-bedroom units. And the two four-bedroom units, the smallest one is 1,470 square feet. Okay. And then the violation says insufficient O street parking, but you've met that requirement. Yes, ma'am. We met the requirement that we have a reason why we believe that we were cited for that is because some of the parking is obtained through an easement with the next door project. So not all the parking is specifically on the property site. We do have a one-to-one parking ratio, but some of those are with the easement that's already been agreed upon next door to hit that one-to-one ratio. Okay. How did the plan solve Mr. Bazzani? Drawing direction. Next door meaning. Sorry. Next door meaning the property that just was here previously. Yes. And that easement is irrespective of those, that's about easement report. That easement is already been reported with the registry. That is irrespective of whether or not they get approved for their project. Obviously, just get to furrow this. Correct. The<|pl|> Good morning Madam Chair, members of the board, Kyra Fox, May is Office of Neighborhood Services. We'd like to go on record of support. Marco, in the rest of 409 have gone above and beyond the community process and actually met with even a butter, a budding neighborhood associations to come to an agreement with an MOU that has been signed by all three neighborhood associations, which they can kind of outline the agreement along that with the community benefits and of the affordable units that they are providing. Thank you. Good morning Madam Chair, members of the board, Daniel Polonko, on behalf of Boston City Council, Tito Jackson. We also like to go on record and support the applicant has been very thorough with the community meetings they've met with us and they've done everything they could to accommodate the needs of the community. So we'd like to go on record and strong support of this project. Thank you. Madam Chair, member of the support, the Robert Powers on behalf of City Council Steve Murphy. Custom Murphy is also in strong support of this project. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Paul Solvin, we have City Council at last, Michael Flarey, let's go record and support. Thank you. My name is Eliza Parade, on behalf of Dudley Street Neighborhood Initiative, 504 Dudley Street. We are in support of this project. We signed an MOU with the developers last week. I have the letter from the board. Thank you. Again, Paul Baufwell, board member of the SNI resident at Forwardville Terrace. And I speak in support of this group today because they've paid attention to specifics and the general soul of the community and they've done a good job. Thank you. Hi, I'm Lorraine Wheeler, 85 Moulin Street and I'm here from Roxbury Pathful with Neighborhood Association to say that we met with Marco and the staff. It's several times they came out to several community meetings and we're here to support the project wholeheartedly. Thank you. Jorge Martinez, 328 Blueville, I'm in Rochester, Mance 02121. I'm here to support this project as a member of the board of directors for Dudley Street Neighborhood Initiative and a trustee of Dudley's Neighbor Inc. Thank you. My name is Robert Haas, I'm a member of Dudley Street Neighborhood Initiative and it's a sustainable development with Mary. I've been in the community from the beginning of DSNI. I'm supporting this project because the developers did what we hope they would do, they conversed with DSNI. They listened to what we said and they came to and a member aimed at understanding that incorporates things that we can support. Thank you. Say, anybody here in opposition? May I have a motion please? No, I'm sorry. All those in favor? Any opposed? Thank you very much. Following the OA 461575833 Red East 8th Street. The purpose is to floor addition or to exist in construction at the Violation Tribe of 15 Section 1. The recording area ratio was excessive. Article 16 Section 1, the height of the recessive 35 feet maximum of logs. Article 19 Section 1, the size of the odd is insufficient even had access to the record. Hi, my name is Derek Hogan, I'm the resident at 583 East 8th Street and I'm proposing a third floor addition to my single family home. When I change in the occupancy at all we're adding additional bedrooms for my children. I have submitted drawings into the board. I have a front drawing on my computer that my architect made. I do not have construction drawings. Any drawings that you have? I do not have. No, I do not. I don't have them with me. I know and know what if I'm me of that. I'm sorry sir, what I think we should do is defer this to 930 to the next hearing. In the meantime just make doubly sure that you get the drawings in. What if I just bring them with me or do you put them both? I don't have a simple project. Okay, so I 7. 7.7 at 930. Okay, thank you. I have a motion. I'll second. Okay, so we're all set. We'll see then. Thank you. Okay, so I'm going to be away for 614816151 dollar stream. The purposes of demolition existed too fairly dwelling in directly new pre-storey, too fairly dwelling. Garage, Red, Decks, Fair, Moose, Decks. Violations are out of 13, section 4. The dwelling in non-residential district, out of 14, section 4, D-Dash 1. We've been on block size sufficient. Out of 14, section 14, D-Dash 3, block width is insufficient. Out of 14, section 4, block front is insufficient. Out of 15, section 1. Bloody years ratio is excessive. Out of 17, section 1. Usable open spaces is insufficient. Out of 18, section 1. Require front yard is insufficient. Out of 20, section 1. Ray yard is insufficient. Out of 16, section 1. Highly success of 35 feet, maximum allow. Out of 16, section 1. Highly success of 2 and a half stories, maximum allow. In and out, that's for the right place. And now you'll do 25, matter, street, momentum. Tim Johnson, architect 190, old Connie, Av, Boston. Madam Chair, members of the board. We are proposing to replace a dilapidated two-family dwelling with a new three-story two-family over garage building. We have rear and roof decks. We met with the Endosquare Civic Association and we received their full support for this project. We did have an abouters meetings and there were a few concerns which we would like to address in here now. One is the abouters to the left of the project or the south side of the project. We're concerned about the building up to the property line. We're pulling it back a full 12 inches from the left or south side property line. Even though we're not seeking side yard setback relief. And the other is the roof deck which is dedicated to the top unit. We're reducing the size to 12 by 12 square, 12 by 12 with no head house and roof hatch instead. So if this is a demolition and a reconstruction, you're obviously not using the same footprint as a previous structure. That's great, Madam Chair. So it's a larger, a larger base footprint and it's a tall building. Well, it isn't a three-story 30 feet. So we're not exceeding 35 feet. So it is a two and a half story, 35 foot zone. We're at three stories, 30 feet. And how large are each of these units? The unit one is a free bedroom, free bath unit because we're capturing space on the first floor at the end of the garage. And unit two or the top unit is a two bedroom, two bath unit. Roughly 1,300 square feet, the other is roughly 1,500 square feet. So essentially this has a garage facing the street. Is that what it has? That's correct, Madam Chair. Okay, how do you plan to open this up, Mr. Bazzani? Brides are adequate. And how is that garage just presented at a light-based street? Well, here's the 9 foot garage floor. I mean it's 9 by 7. I'm sorry, I mean by 7 foot. Then there is the end-construct to the units. That's right. And we have a very prominent front bay that extends out over the garage door to cast shadow on it and to make it more recessed, more setback in the building. Okay, any questions from the board? Does anybody here have a speaking support of this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the board, our apprentice mayor's office, neighborhood services, lake going record. In support with the provisos that the architects said, expanding the side yards that back to 12 inches and making the roof deck 12 by 12 with no items. Madam Chair, members of the board, John Allison from Council President Linnahann's office. We'd also like to go on record and support. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Paul Sullivan on behalf of the City Council at large, Michael Flattty, echoing the citizens of the mayor's office as well as District Council, I'd like to go on record support. Madam Chair, members of the board, Robert Powers on behalf of City Council, Stephen Murphy. Council Murphy is always in support of this project. Thank you. Thank you. Is anybody here in opposition? Yes, we are the butters to the south. You want to fix the name and address? My name is Mustafa Ziyadlu, 36, 38, Devinway. I have here signed a whole bunch of neighbors that they oppose the headhouse. We spoke to the developer that is going to do 12 feet by 12 feet. We can compromise on that, but we cannot compromise on 11 inches that is going to be to our south. It's going to suffocate our building. And this gentleman is my neighbor, the owner of the other property. Can he speak from his own behalf? Yes, sir. Go ahead. My name is Jason Fu, 44 Divideway, next to the project. Because he tried to expand the house to go to the property like only couple inches on the property like that creates so much problem. One thing is that block up all the window wheel. Second is the fire escape. Winter time has so much problem. The travel all the snow go into the property is impossible to fire to go out. If they can set back on the Ziyad, it would be okay. Thank you. Any questions? I'm going to write it right now, about 70 inches. Self property by closing the bed by 5 inches. Yes, sir. Yes, sir. 12 inches. Can you address any of the about us concerns? Yes, well, the issue of the headhouse, we are deleting the headhouse. We are reducing the size of the roof deck. The better to the south, we are deleting the headhouse and going with a 5x5 roof hatch thereabouts. The better to the south, his building is set back from the south or side property line approximately 3.5 feet. So we feel setting back an additional 5 or 6 inches on our side. There is ample space for snow storage in the winter time. What's required on the zoning facade here? Zero. Zero, and so you are... We are exceeding that by going to the top. You're still going to put up that, okay? That's correct, Mountcher. If you're demolishing an existing house, yes, sir. And how one of the side yards set back to an existing house? These are only big estimations. The Ziyad set back on the left would be 4.5 feet, maybe 5 on the right would be 3 feet plus or minus. It's a narrow building. We're set back 3 feet on the same set back on the left side, right side. It's tradition in the neighborhood to have a generally a 3-foot set back on the houses that exist on that. That's correct. On least on one side so that you can access the rear yard for trash, storage, etc. Yes. Both sides, I don't see that a lot because a lot of times you do get party walls. So if you want to have a seven inches, don't even get to the rear yard block. Can you pass it against the front? How are you going to access the rear of your building if you want to have 12 inches? We have 12 inches on the left side. On the right side we have a 3-foot passageway to access the rear yard with storage and trash, etc. Okay. Speak. Here we all have a test of money, sir. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? May I have a motion please? I'm sure I'd like to make a motion to grant only for Quesson with the following visors. Be sure to design the view that the left on the left side. So the building that is the south side of the building, the set back 12 inches, that the new headhouse is eliminated for a new patch, that the deck be reduced to 12 for quite 12. Sorry. All those in favor? Aye, aye. Any opposed? You're all second with left. Thank you, Chair. On the back of the early case, it calls POA 465-821-1511-1525 Washington Street. The applicant here, now 11. 49 is going to make a motion for denial without prejudice. We'll go through three. All right, aye. Any opposed? Aye. And we'll go through the 930 building code calling POA 465-991-5557-Traveler Street. Section of the building code, Section 1007-1, accessible V-press required, accessible V-press required for the section, violation 70 and CMR in addition. The end of the record please. The project is at 275 Aldean Street. I am John Landon, the project architect from Atink at 311 Summers Street in Boston. I'm joined with the project's co-consultant, Sarah Lovato of C3 of Congress Street in Boston. Is this related to a project we had seen before or is it related to a project we both see? No, the project is essentially, we have our certificate of occupancy for 90% of it. It's essentially done. You may have seen this project maybe six years ago. It's a very large project that's, as I said, essentially complete. Can you please clarify the address? Because the address we have is 55. That is correct. That is correct. That's the now new legal address, but most people know of this project. And when it came before you, possibly six years ago, it was probably referred to as 275 Albany. It's called Troy Mosson. But the legal address that's been filed is correct. So, Mr. Design, the issue here, well, I'll look at the length. Although I will say that Doug Anderson from C3 had discussed this with me. And we can send him the documents. Thank you. What I'd like to do is give a very quick project overview and then I'll turn it over to Sarah to talk about the specifics of the code and the relief that we're seeking. That would be great. Thank you. That's fine. So, what occurred was the project was completed. The owner hired a third party review of the project drawings. And it was discovered that a second accessible means of egress was not provided from the pool deck. And what is being proposed is a, what is similar to an area of refuge because this is an exterior portion of the building. We were proposing to provide wheelchair spaces near the stairwell, the exterior stair that accesses the public way. And providing a telephone call, symbol call box similar to what is in an elevator lobby that reports back to the Fire Command Center. And this is in lieu of providing a ramp system or some other accessible means of egress. And if I may clarify, this pool deck is on the third level of the project. And it has multiple levels. And they're separated by 18 inches. So, the upper pool deck where you would swim is 18 inches higher than the lounge pool deck. But we have a ramp. We do currently have a five foot wide compliant ramp that connects the two. But the building code would require that you have two. And the upper pool deck is actually very small. And if we were to have the two, we would have realized this in time. We almost wouldn't have a pool. It would have all been consumed by ramp. So, we've proposed this as an alternative. I think one of the issues that came up in discussion with the digantison was that an area of wrecking clearly works in the summertime. Fires don't always, I'm always seasonal. And so that what should happen here is that with the relief granted, there has to be in place an aggressive maintenance program that absolutely loops that clear. So, yes. And it comes off. Should something push in happen than anybody? Well, absolutely. And if I could maybe add to that, the deck in question will be completely closed to all people but maintenance staff during the winter because we can't heat it. We won't be heat pool. We have gates that close off to the public and will be posted. So, yes. So, if I have a generic emotion to grant early for questioning as presented by testimony and a document that the secret is presented. Thank you, sir. All of us in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Your answer. Thank you very much. I'm going to call the M30 hearing for any deferrals or withdrawals. Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the Board, my name is George Forens and I'm returning to the business address 350 West Broadway in South Boston. The project address 213 West 5th Street. File on the record. D.O.A. 460-031-213 West 5th Street. Madam Chair, members, we had a community meeting approximately a week and a half ago with committed to returning and having another community on July 11th, which time will present revised plans amending the project in response to about a concerns. If we're late to ask for a deferral on this matter. Councillor, if I may put some reason the board does not have a copy of the plan, so I'm simply going to have to. Do we know it? Thank you. That's our motion. Motion for the referral. Is there a second? Second. All of us in favor. Aye. Any opposed? Eight. You have a date of August, fourth and 130. Thank you very much. That's for me. 35 Austin Street in Austin. Can we have that for an 1130? Anybody from 1030? Go ahead, 1030 East. I'm sorry. File on the record. File on the D.O.A. 460-0395-547. Which has the street? My name is Mai Phung, a 204-admstree Rochester, Massachusetts, 02122. Mike Winston, you can be here and I will be here in this behalf. The last meeting with the Civil Association, the engineer, did not finish the grant, so I believe the co-GLD, the Bay Billets Association have send requests for the referral. I'm going to make a motion for the referral. There are seconds. Second. All of us in favor. Aye. Any opposed? The date of August, fourth and 1130. Thank you. Anybody else, casual for 1030? Withdrawals or the referrals? 1030 either withdrawals or the referrals? The referrals. 40. The address please. 414 Meridian Street, East Boston. Will the right be calling B.O.A. 46414. Meridian Street, there is also a convenient case. B.O.A. 4641414. The Indian address for the right please. My name is Richard Safuni, I live at 99 Lion Road and Winter Mass. What are you requesting? I am requesting, changing the occupancy from a three family in a barber shop. Are you requesting a deferral? Oh, I'm sorry, yes, a deferral. Okay. May I have a motion? What's it for the referrals? The third, second. Second. All of those in favor. Aye. Time. Any opposed? The date please. The date of August, fourth and 1130. Okay, thank you. So, there are any more for 1030s, the parole withdrawal. You're going to take 1130s with referrals for the referrals. 70 Meridian Street. Calling B.O.A. 4152807. 70 Meridian Street. Name an address for the right place. We have a Jeff Tregos 62B commercial war feast in Boston. Attorney for the applicant. We're seeking a deferral here today. We have to continue to work with the community. We're in between coordinators for this particular district and the new coordinator like us to have another butter's meeting before we move forward. We've changed the plans and we have a few more minor changes to make. All right, the first. Second. All those in favor. Aye. Any opposed? The date please. The date of August, fourth and 1130. Thank you. Go ahead, address please. 184, adding straightness to courtship. Calling B.O.A. 4333238. Any more out of three. M&A, please. Good afternoon. Madam Chair, members of the Board. My name is George Moran. It's your committee attorney with the business address of 350 West Bargain. Still a boss and then withdraw the application. May I have a moment to announce? All those in favor. Aye. Any opposed? Your all seconded remarks. And one more. 870-870-D East 6th Street. Calling B.O.A. 4485148. 870-870-D East 6th Street. Any other address for the right? George Moran. It's your committee attorney with the business address of 350 West Bargain. It's all bossed. Madam Chair, members, my clients have significantly redesigned this proposed project. There is still a considerable amount of concern on the part of the butter's. We have committed to working with those butter's on the redesign of the project before coming back. But therefore seek a referral to continue our meetings with the butter's. Motion to the referral. Madam Chair, please say, would you like to start on the half of the butter's? Second. The I see on the half of the butter's. But when the applicant requests to defer, we do allow that to defer. We just would like to date a little bit later so that there's about six feet of the butter's. I see it's like a date except for another boss in it. Did I have a motion? I think the motion. Is there a second? All those in favor? Hi. Any opposed? The date, please? We have a date of August 18th at 1130. Thank you. Adresse, please. 11 Highland Park Avenue. Calling VOA-442-645-11 Highland Park. Do I have any other address for the record please? Attorney Leslie Delaney-Hockins, McDermick-Wilton-Miller, 131 Oliver Street, representing Rec Properties, LLC. As you are aware, this board granted a request for deferral during its April 21st hearing, since which time the applicant has entered into discussions with a potential buyer for the property. As each party is seeking to close as soon as possible, we respectfully request the deferral until September so that the new purchaser may continue conversations with the committee. Does it make sense to withdraw the case? We believe that because the prospective buyer has already reached out to the Fort Hill Neighborhood Association, for any essence of saving time that this makes the most sense. Thanks. One of the most relevant. Is there a second? All those in favor? All right. Any opposed? The date, please? The date of September 1st at 1130. Thank you. The other question. Okay. Address, please. 35 loss to street. Call the BOA 4700 2735. We can name an address for the record. Kristen Lane-Goni-Boston Common Solutions, 11 Lantern Lane Rock West Roxburg, Jenny Seato 61 Langley Road. Madame Chairwoman, originally we were scheduled to be a Thursday zone in case. We have not had a chance of community meeting with the Office of Neighborhood Services. We have community support through letters that we had the community sign. We would just like an opportunity now to have a meeting with the community and the Office of Neighborhood Services. Okay. Hello, Pearl. Second. All those in favor? Any opposed of the day? I'm raised. August 18th at 11.30. Thank you. Great good luck. Address please. Number one Ringgold Street. Following the LA-450917, one Ringgold Street. Name and address to the right. Marcus Springer, Springer Architects 326A Street, South Boston. What is the request? The owners have requested to withdraw the zoning application due to excessive construction costs that they have been receiving since our deferral in favor of a smaller internal renovation that we'll see if there needs. And this is number one? Number one, yes. Number one. Okay. May I have a moment? I'm sorry. All those in favor? Bye. Any opposed? So you're all set. Thank you. Hey. We're talking about cases for a lemon theory deferral. We're going to go through the 10-30 cases. Probably B-O-A-46041821-E6-3. The purpose is to modify and remove that direct violation. Violation is Article 664, other protection or condition applied. Name and address to the right. The emergency representative, Sarah Kloewski, 821-E6-3. It looks like this is a request to modify the proviso. What was the proviso? The proviso had called out for no roof deck, but the original proviso was for no common area roof deck, which we had put on for the whole building to achieve the green space requirement. And we had opposition for a common area roof deck at that time at the original development of the building and what we're asking for is to get back to exclusive use roof deck, which is dated to the third floor of the union. Where did this building of fruit? Several years ago, six, seven years ago, I think. Six, seven years ago. And the, was this a precise beyond the board of the proviso? I think it says no roof deck was actually what was typed, but what was discussed in the meeting was no common area roof deck and that exclusive was allowable. Okay, so what this, what these, what our board members signed was a decision that said no roof deck. That's correct. And you're requesting for what you're requesting is for a private roof deck today? That's, that's correct. How does the roof deck actually been built? It's existing and it has a guard rail. There's no construction to be done. It's actually just the use of the space. It doesn't have any decking. It's just a flat rubber roof with rubber payers on it. So there's no, nothing to do. It's just, we'll want to have a legal use of the roof. Otherwise you're just standing on the roof. So who constructed this building? A development company, which, the construction company was sleeping dog properties, which was, I was part of, but the development team was separate. How do the clients open this design with this? I have to be, if we fell off the board of mine at the turn, because whether or not the access to the room was restricted only to the third unit. Yes, it is. Because there's a, there's a, there's a door at the bottom of the column stairs that's, that, that space of that stairs now deeded to the third floor unit. So that was not a, a permanent arrest here before the second floor? No, it does not. It below, below it is. So, yeah. But you can't, but the second, first and second floor, cannot go up to the doors. It's in the mid landing between the second and third floor. Okay. So it's on, maybe, maybe, two-thirds key. What's the one on the two-thirds key? I could, don't recall exactly, but that's probably correct. So that restricts anybody on the second floor, and go down the universe. Yes. You cannot go up. Correct. So access to the room, then you'll be up to the stairs. Yes. And through the loop hat, through the hatch. Correct, correct, through the hatch. Is the head house existing now? There's just a hatch. It's like a, there's a, there's a, from a dress down from the third floor. Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Is anybody here in opposition? Are there any further questions from the board? May I have a motion? Well, you know, I am bothered, you know, because, really, the provisor in 2009, I already was driving and was instructed to remove the loop hat. That it's no loop hat at all. That's correct, but that was based, the BRA review came after the, the ZBA hearing, and that was produced in the ZBA. So the ZBA said, no, roof deck, and then that trickled down to, you know, this, take this back, it's designing, the decision. Well, the decision's clear. Two, three, four, five, so it's the BRA design review. We'll move the deck and change from a two to a three. And Jeff, you don't call it an conversation on this, do you? No, I mean, it's clearly in the decision that, and we signed the decision, decided the decision to allow the, okay, so that was very specific, provided. Okay, so I need a motion with that clarification. I mean, I asked one question, that door that's between the second and third, is that always existed there or? Yes, yes, it's actually the entry door to the unit. So there's, you know, they can just basically go right in from there. So then, I guess what's confusing to me is, we said that, it was, it was, it was eliminating the common loop deck in board. It was no access to the board. Oh, no, it put in, yeah. But clearly, the decision was made, and the motion was made by this board to have no risk yet to develop or write ahead and build something. No, that's not correct. Are coming in to ask us to change that provider to make it to allow the deck. That's actually not correct. What happened with the developer did not do any construction and then how, how, how, how? The room. I actually did when I bought the, I bought the third floor unit, which is how I got here from the developer as part of the construction deal. And then I've sold that unit to Sarah Lobsky, who is understanding what the problem is with the roof deck. And basically, what I went and did was I went and pulled the permit afterwards for it. And I received that permit and then made the investment and did the construction. And then after the construction was completed, I was told that that permit should never have been issued and that I needed to go to the board because it was part of the proviso, which I didn't realize that it was the proviso said no roof deck versus no commentary roof deck, which was the only opposition at the time. They didn't want us to move out and have, you know, somebody have big parties there. And so, so, so, you see this before, I think one question is, is there any support for it now? Well, there was no support or nobody speaking in support and nobody here in opposition. I want to make a motion for the night because I think that the basis of this project receiving the end was two minutes from a three or two in the room. Two. May I have a second? No, it is the three family. All those in favor? All right. It went from a two family, two or three and then. Right. So, the motion still stands. May I have a second? Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Sorry, I denied. Well, I'll be away 445-25-26 output to the screen. The person is dead. Red Bay, I'm dead. I'm free level. I have a red deck, new roof deck, violation time. No, 64 section 9. Palo de la Roja, no, 60 to Durea, no, 64 section 9. Durea, no, 50 to David Agra for the record. Dartanian Brown, architect from Embark, 60 K Street. Jonathan Parks, authorizing for a 26-ample tunnel. I'll see 60 K Street. I don't know if I'm supposed to be silent. Is anybody else speaking support of this proposal? Chair, members, the board, Jordan D.C. From the mayor's office of the name and services. We'd like to go on record and support. We did have an up-butter's meeting and we believe all the concerns have been worked out. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board. Madam Chair, members of the board. Madam Chair, members of the board. John Allison from Council President Linnahan's office. We'd also like to go on record and support. Thank you. Is anybody here? Members of the board, Robert Powers on behalf of City Council. Stephen Riffey, Councilor Murphy's also in support of this application. Thank you. Is anybody here in opposition? May I have a motion please? Motion for approval. Second target. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? The rear is the area. I think the ventures of the southern landmarks for the height of the rails. No, we will do that. Okay, so it's the rear side. Thank you. We have a second. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? You're all set. Thank you. Thank you. The following, be it away. 4-6-2-3-7-6-68 West Rufflin Square. West Rufflin Square. This is a garad indication that we have an additional level. The roof deck above has gotten level. Violation particle 32 section 4, which he caught out in the ability. Article 64, section 9, Floody Interracial with excessive. Article 64, section 9, Point 4, townhouse, growhouse, expenditure, amenadio, to the record. I'm Tim Haines from Meyer and Meyer, on the architect on the project. I'm Ronan and Carol. I live at 68 West Rufflin Square. Tell us briefly what you're proposing, and if you've gotten enough global partly ground water. So what we're proposing is the addition of a two-car garage in the rear of the building, with a deck that is at the level of the first floor, or garden level in South End Paralympus. So the basement will be extended with the deck on the roof of the garage when floor above. We have submitted a proposal to ground water trust, which they've accepted, and the signature from Water and Seaward Commission. Thank you. How do the clients look Mr. Bazzani? Roger. Any questions from the board? Go ahead. Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the Board, Christian Summally, Grand Water Trust. I am requesting a whole for signature while I have seen the plans. They have yet to be submitted to Water and Seaward for approval, so I ask the whole for signature to receive the letter from Water and Seaward. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Join me. Madam Chair, I'm Mr. Borg. I'm joined DC from the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. So apparently the Director of the Board has been working this out for this entire time since this morning. We thought we were going to support it. The abouters were in opposition, now they're in support, but now they're in opposition because they thought it was a one-car garage and not a two-car garage. It's the... I think where the only ones that are being grateful for the delay this morning because it's given us sometimes work this out, so I thought. Okay. It's the... Okay, so the request right now is for two car garage and we understand. Thank you. Anybody else who speak in support or maybe in the middle or maybe in opposition? Okay. We'd like to... Five more minutes. My name is Herbert Hirschfang and I live in 64 West Rutland Square. And we've worked together and understood that this was going to be a one-car garage. And we have no opposition if it's a one-car garage. We have strong opposition if it's going to be a two-car garage. Okay, thank you. Clarification from the alphabet please. It is actually designed for one car. It's the full width of the property. I misspoke. The door was downsized to include a man door so it has width for one car to enter. What is the width of the garage? It's 21 feet wide outside to outside. What is the width of the garage? I believe it's 14 feet. Single car garage door is 9 foot by 7 foot car. Why don't you reduce the garage door to 9 foot by 7 and that way it will be a one-car garage. The 14 foot wide garage door can't allow two cars to enter. Yes, they want to have the additional room so the door can be open so there's plenty of room to maneuver. It's a very tight alley. No, but it's a tight alley but you're showing an 18 foot 7 foot wide. There. The alley is what? The owners have one car. They don't want to stipulate that they couldn't have a smaller vehicle that they couldn't have something else at the store. So you're lucky for the provision to provide two cars. We don't want the restriction that it must only be one car. I want to make a motion to grant the relief requested with the provision that the width of the garage door will be reduced to 9 feet. Okay. May I have a second? I'll be eyeing the view. I'll second that. All those in favor? Any opposed? Motion carries with those providers. Thank you. Thank you. Calling the OA 462812195201 South Street. Representative, the basement storage space into office space. Violation time with body 4, section 5. Go to your ratio and accessible. Name an address for the recommendation. Good morning, my name is Rebecca Leon with Watford. I'm here representing the owner. This is an application for tenant fit out of previously unused basement space into an office space on the basement area and this results in a technical violation of a FAR on a previously existing building with no exterior changes except for boarded up windows will now become operable. How do the plans look, Mr. Pazani? Drawings are interested. The file. There's a file. Does anybody have the speak and support of this proposal? Good morning, Madam Chair and members of the board. Danny Chang-Meyer is office of the neighborhood services. Will Devon, resident support advocate has gone through the community process and everybody's on board. Thanks. Thank you. Does anybody here in opposition? And this office space is an extension from the post-born to the basement? Correct. Yeah, it's two story office space. Yes. What is the board of seats like? In the cellar is 10.2 to the underside of the concrete deck. Is there a more... Sorry. 5 seconds. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? You're all set. Thank you very much. Thank you. Finally, B-O-A 464-137-20-Astero in place. Members, can you start three stories? The top of the listening eight-story building for 11 stories total. I have all three from 99 feet to 138 feet. Violations are on the six section. Daryl Cuyahes, additional conditions. And restricted, five in district. High to the 45, section 14. Use the condition of the five in garage. High to the 45, section 5. High to the death. Name and address for the record. Good afternoon, Matt Chairman's board. Mike Ross, principal of Bell Law, firm 282 Marginal Street, East Boston. Here with my client, Alex Levinthal, who is a principal at Ferris Properties, and also a resident of Boston. And my colleague, Dan Westman, from my law of this, and Chris Smith is setting up for architect, Kerry Hendriff. We are here, as you mentioned today. We also have some plans that should be good in your hands, as I see they now are. Slight revisions on those. We're seeking zoning relief in the form of height and a conditional use permit for parking. The building is 20 Ashburton Street. You may know this building as the mass teachers association's building. They sold it. Alex and his company purchased it. The building will seek to remain in office building. Our plan is to improve it. In the following ways, we'd like to renovate the ground floor to bring retail and a restaurant use. At the request of area butters, we're going to add a green roof and observation deck to the top of the building. Our plan is to embed the mechanicals within the building itself and taking them off the roof. There is existing zoning capacity for this building today. In the form of FAR and in height, we're not seeking any additional FAR. We are, however, seeking 13 feet of additional height mainly because we're embedding the mechanicals and also to make sure that each of the floors is a proper height. The addition itself is a three-story glassy zeal structure. Again, with each floor being 11 feet in height, it's slightly set back from the roof. And it's going to follow that same architecture, that same unique architecture of the existing FASAD. And then again, a conditional use permit for accessory parking for the nine cars that would go in the basement. In the packet, you should find several letters of support. We're also working with our avatar at 130 Bowdoin Street to make sure that any impacts whatsoever of construction are handled responsibly. In terms of our construction, we are choosing between three general contractors right now, all of which who have vast experience working in the city of Boston and are responsible and also happen to be signatories to the Carpenters. Yes, it's Lee Kennedy, Columbia, and Shawman right now. It would be one of those three. And speak again to the parking. This is a restricted parking district. This is accessory parking, which would be a conditional use permit in the basement. It's only going to be used for people in the building. And it's an existing basement that has an existing kind of freight elevator. So we're not even have to do any significant work to get cars into that. Thank you. How do the plans left, Mr. Pesani? Long is right. Any more questions from the board? Does anybody have to speak in support of this proposal? I would quick, there's a parking lot right next door that this wouldn't happen to that parking for five minutes that stay. Yeah, that it's so here a lot right now. For now, it's, that is not our project. That is not our property. They are our butters. For now, they are neighbors. We don't know what their plans are with that site. Thank you. You're here to speak in support, Danny. Danny Chain, Mayor's Office of the Neighborhood Services, who likes to bond, recognize support. We support the improvement and changes to the property. Thanks. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, John Allison from Council President Linnahan's Office. We'd like to go on record and support. Madam Chair, members of the board of mine, or register, present in the carpenters union. It is with gracious windows. It is for this party. Thank you. Is anybody here in opposition? My name is John Russell. I'm an attorney with office at 15 Court Square in Boston. I represent a director butter. We're with you properties. My clients only agree with this here. They've lodged certain complaints. There's been some preliminary type of discussions. And there hasn't been adequate discussion to address the concerns of my client. My client owns a residential apartment building, which is directly, abouting the locus. And there's lots of issues with tenant problems that are going to arise. And there are lots of problems that need addressing. And a little more time would be welcome to do that. As I said, there have been some preliminary discussions. What's the address again of the buddy property that you represent? I have to look to tell you the truth. It's on one street. On the other street. Yes. And who's the owner? The owner is a riverview property. Okay. So what are the issues that are being raised? Well, tenant disturbance because of noise, dust, construction, making sure that construction happens within the appropriate time frame. These are old buildings. There's a prospect of building damage during construction. And we also rent due to tenants packing up and leaving because of the circumstances. So those are basically the complaints that my client has. And what's the use of one-third of the body? It's apartments. Okay, residential. Okay. Are there windows on that side of the building that are going to be affected? Are you being affected? Are you just concerned about the destruction activity? I'm not concerned. Yes. I'm concerned. At present, the construction. It's just a construction. At this point, I haven't seen the truth. I'd be involved in this on Friday afternoon. Well, it's that you're late in the park. Pardon me? I say you're late for the park. I guess I would be. Well, thank you. Thank you. Thank you. How many meetings have you had in the military meeting? We had one public meeting at 130 Bowdoin Street where members of the board attended. We also met directly with the board of 130 Bowdoin Street. We planned to work with them and attorney Russell on all their construction issues. And then in addition to that, we've had two other butter meetings with area people. So we really covered our bases. We fly into our community. Well, that entire block when we had our community meeting in their property. We want to do right by our neighbors. We plan to be their pharaoh's properties. We plan to move its headquarters there. We've already had a good relationship with their butter. In fact, some of the support letters come from people who are in that building. Who work there and who are on the board. So we are going to work with that community and with that to our director butter is because we're going to be their neighbors. And we want to make sure we do right by them. It's not an apartment building. It's a condominium building. Apartment building. Apartment building. Yes, sir. There's two and there's two apartment buildings. One is leader management, which is right in front of us where there's a letter of support. And one is one third where they retain attorney Russell who I will work with. And they'll be happy to get through any of his construction issues. Thank you. We have a motion please. We'll approve the area design of you. Second. All those in favor? All right. Any opposed? And you're all set? Thank you very much. Thank you. Please. Thank you. Thank you. We go to the letter of communications calling B.O.A.448. 5.E.6.2092.2092. Chestnut.Hab. The outfit being here. Chestnut.Hab. Hold up. Calling B.O.A.433. Call B.O.A.443.919.35. Mount Everett Street. Paying B.O.A.443. 92035. Mount Everett Street. The purpose is directly free family dwelling violations out of the 65 section 8 multi-family uses of it. Out of the 65 section 9 minimum lot area of the institution out of the 65 section 9 side yard. Building code. Section 101.4.7. Handicap.net into the building. Section 707105. Opening of a serial law and excessive opening. Damon Adversa. The record. Good afternoon. My name is Stuart Shryer. 1005. Doach Esther Avenue. Doach Esther. And with me is Si Vol. who is the owner of the property. So please tell us why you would depote the last time and what is it to it since then? We would defer because it came up very quickly. This was one of the first meetings where there was virtually no time for filing in the first hearing. Needed some time to meet with the neighbors. We've been told that the Bowdoin Street is sent in a letter of support. We've submitted letters from some of the neighbors and what. So then please address the building code issue. Well the building code issue is unfortunately it's a failing narrow lot. It's about 38 feet wide. The lot is very deep. It's about 150 feet deep. So when you're close to the lot line, the openings in the wall. We look at the number of openings in the wall and in the fire protection. The second issue is you try to keep the modal front yard. And if you try to keep the modal front yard, then you have problems with the handicap accessible ramp to the front stair. So the question is keeping modal front yard. Can you really have an accessible handicap front stairway? You can put a handicap staircase in the back. But it's very difficult. What is the required front yard send back? My recollection is 10 feet. And what are you proposing? 15 feet. It's supposed to be 15 feet because that's modal. And you still cannot accommodate a ramp? Well, because the lot is only 38 feet wide. It's the problem. But your object shows a unit that ramped or one to 12. So for some reason they say that's not an acceptable ramp. They want a different ramp. I don't know. We didn't write the violation. So I can't. So the drawings, Mr. Pazani, show a ramp. What was the other building called? Violation. Accessive openings. Accessive openings. Okay. Now the issue there is that it's really on the right side of the building. Is that correct? Correct. And on the right side of the building there are, so when you're on the back, you need to get your own. You have to get your own. There's a window in the kitchen that you don't have. Because you have a window in the roof. Okay. On the side there are four windows in the living room. And you have a bed with three full lights. So this is a design issue. You can design your way out of this building. And what about the panic pattern? Well, I'm confused because I see that that shows a one 12-kcal accessible ramp. No. We have 15 feet from the ancient nonprofit line to the building. Now one is a row that needs one. And the other is a 10-kcal. So when you're actually setting the front porch at, you know what the height of the front porch is. What? 12-kcal, isn't it? Yeah, 12-kcal. So it's due a total length. Yeah? Okay. So, you can see the width of the front porch at the bottom. You see the width of the front porch. So the width of the front porch is 12. So it's due a total length. So the width of the front porch is due a total length. And then it's a design issue. We have a second plate. All those in favor? I have. And you post, pay not the merits of the zoning violations. So the only violations are minimum lot and side yard. This is a 6,000. It's a 2F6,000 area. We have 5,300 and 57 square feet. Now, the reason we designed this for three families is because virtually we're in a sea of three family homes. There are 12, 12 three family homes across the street to the left. We're not talking about the uses. We're just talking about the violations of minimum lot and side yard. Right. But all the lots in the neighborhood are roughly the same size so that we think this is an appropriate building. So if you go up and down the street, it's 5375, 5575, 5575, 554. Allons 5375. So it fits in with the neighborhood. A lot has the exact characteristics that adjust for our variance because it's a narrow lot. It's much deeper. There's a very nice backyard there for open space. It's just an appropriate lot for that. So, I'm glad to look at Mr. Mazzani. The very nice section of the show. They show a Kenford wide left side yard and a rear yard that is 65 feet. Okay. Why did you reach? Is anybody here to speak and support of this proposal? That's it. I'd like to do it. Adam Chair, members of the Board, Flavre DeVega, Mayor's Office, neighborhood service. We'd like to go on record and support its application. They have support from the community and the bodies. Thank you. Is anybody in opposition? May I have a motion please? Motion for approval, the area is on. Okay. And what's the design as you focus on? The whole building. The whole building. The building. The building is a simple building. So, we'll go everything else. I'm sure. Thank you. There are seconds. All those in favor? All right. Any opposed? You're all second. Thank you. I can't hear you. 446-305-27-Dormley Street. The purpose of the change is from a two family to a three family in Renovate. By relation to Article 64, Section 8, the three family is forbidden. Article 65, Section 41. Article 61 is in division. Article 65, Section 9, in open space. In division. Name and address for the record please. Name is Tally B. Kennedy. 1059 Washington Street in Dorchester, Mass. At this time I was going to ask for deferral. What are the reasons? We didn't have enough people. No one showed up at our butters meeting that we had on the property. Okay. Okay. So, what are you going to change? Maybe nobody is interested. I don't know. I really don't know. I was just going to get more time and that's what I was suggested to do. Okay. May I have a motion please? Sure. I see our second. All those in favor? All right. Any opposed? The date please? We have a date of August 18th at 11.30. Thank you. This will be your last deferral. Thank you so much. Thank you for your hard work. Yes sir. Probably B-O-A-448-233-11 Virginia Street. Where this is the Chinese Army as a single-failing, build garment, construct a red and install red fortune. By the age of Article 65, Section 42, 65-42 and 8, accessory bill and inside will be a guide. Article 65-29, 40 area ratio was excessive. Article 65-69, frankly, out is insufficient. Article 65-69, side-guided is insufficient. And Article 65-69, really out is insufficient. Name and address for the record. Vargas Dusselvier, 11 Virginia Street. Can you tell us briefly why you were deferred the last time and what has changed since then? What has changed I was deferred the SNI and speaking with the community throughout the whole process, been through three or four different community gathering and the new rendering that I have is that I just submitted is the what I got support for for for majority of the community. Can you tell us what that looks like? Does that change the size of the dormers or the rail porches? Yes, the porches, the house itself is not, is not at all changed, has not changed. It's only the garage. We had originally proposed 50 foot garage, four car garage with an office up top. Since we've been through the meetings and everything else, heard with the neighborhood wanted, it said that three car garage and an office that would be a mansard rather than a picture would have been more appropriate for the community. I did that change and that's what I'm submitting to you today. What zoning district is this? This is two family districts. So this is two families. What's the office use proposed for? Home office. It's a home office. What kind of home office? Any visitors coming in? No, no visitors. Okay. How do the plans look Mr. Bazzani? The garage is on. Any questions from the board? Anybody here to speak and support this proposal? Good afternoon. Chair and members of the board, Flabri De Vega, Mayor's Office and Neighborhood Service. We've had numerous meetings on this project. The applicant has made some significant changes. I know there's some opposition to the bodies on the back street, which is Manadnaq, about the height of the garage. But we feel that there's a homeowner coming in to the neighborhood, bringing his business to the neighborhood, and really knowing that property, we feel confident that this is a great asset to the neighborhood and we support of this project. Madam Chair, members of the board, Joe McGecker and City Council, Frank Baker's office, would like to echo the sentiments of the Mayor's Office, who have been in many, lengthy, a broader and civic group meetings, and we believe that he's made the proper concessions, and we like to support the project. Madam Chair, members of the board, Robert Powers, if you have the City Council or Steven Murphy, Council Murphy's been touched with members of the community groups, and he's also supporting this project. Thank you. Can I just speak and support? I live in 41 Virginia Street. I'm here for support. You're in your name? Eunice Medina. Thank you. Hi, my name is Eliza Broad. Here on behalf of Deli Street Neighborhood Initiative, 504 Deli Street, we're here in support of the project. We are aware that some of the butters still have existing concerns, and we encourage the developer to work with those residents, but we feel that overall, a lot of concessions have been made, and the board of DSNI, to make adjustments. I have a letter from the board of directors again. I'm also aware that Peter Roby, he from the Van Druk Ovarios office, is in support of the project. He was emailing me to say that he couldn't make it in time. But... Board, I also forgot I have... That one minute. Board, is your second. Mr. House? Yes, I'm Robert House. I'm speaking as the president of the Uppermost Corner, the Westside Neighborhood Association. You have in your possession, and I have another copy of you needed, of a letter from our association of conditional support, where we are supporting the project, provided that the garage is no more than one story tall, and no wire than three bays. That's the word the neighborhood association. And we hope that Mr. Ovario will work through all those things. Thank you. Thank you. My name is Mark Abrahl. I'm a resident of 16 Virginia Street. I recently moved out. I grew up on Virginia Street. I am in favor of this project. It fits in well with the community as it is designed, and I hope that the board sees that. Thank you. Does anybody here in opposition? Yes. Can you please put your name and address on the record please? Joanne Tuller. Oh, she's in the right corner. Yeah, mine. Madam Chair, members of the board. I'm Joanne Tuller. I live at number six, Minad Nox Street. And I am also the sole beneficiary of the trust that owns eight Minad Nox Street, which is direct about her to Mr. Dusserley's property. And I am empowered to speak on behalf of the letter that I'll give you afterwards. And I'm empowered to speak on behalf of the trustee, which is my mother. Please, my life to us, what your concerns are. Okay. Because we'll have the letter in the record. So, I like your concerns. My concerns, I have several concerns, actually. The first one is that the proposed garage is way out of proportion with others in the neighborhood. And just give us stacks. The pictures. Okay. Okay. There are, these are some typical ones. Virginia and Minad Nox Street have 55 single-in-two family houses, 11 three-deckers, and a few multi-family larger buildings. Out of those, there are 11 garage, as most houses have none. Of those, all of them are single-story, one or two car garages, and there's some pictures there. There are also six original carriage houses. But their footprints are more compact, and there's the two in the bottom there, showing that they're more typical of the sort of, you know, squareish, queen-and architecture of the neighborhood. Mr. Cabral has a four car garage next to his two family house. But that's a flat roof and doesn't shade anything except his own property, which is the big concern about this garage. So this one would have, even though it's a three-bay garage, it's actually 40 feet long, almost the size of a four car garage. And with the second story, it's almost two-thirds the height of the, it's actually more than two-thirds of the size of the first part. So both in scale and in design, it doesn't fit the context of the neighborhood. Second of all, especially from the Minad Nox Street side, and I'm a little bit of a disadvantage here because I only have seen, I've seen, I'm not sure which plans Mr. Dosselvar has filed right now. But let's tell us. Okay, so you're concerned about the 40. About the Minad Nox Street is way lower than Virginia Street. Okay. And if you look at the new designs that Mr. Dosselvar submitted, it shows that from the Virginia Street side, the building appears two stories high, but from the Minad Nox Street side, it appears almost three stories high at the highest. And in addition, the slope continues down, the grade continues down towards Minad Nox Street even further. So we'd be looking up at the bottom of it. So in the person who would be the most affected, who is John Fuzinowski, who owns 12 Minad Nox Street, is too ill to be here. But he, you know, impaired me to speak on his behalf and I have a letter from him also. He would be, his third floor would be blocked by this. And it would be very close to, because Mr. Dosselvar wants to put it on the back lot line, it would be very close to him and very disruptive. I also had a son study done that shows that it would really block off all the morning sun from his house. I asked Mr. Dosselvar if he would consider making the building smaller, perhaps he could put his office in the house instead of in the garage. And first, he told me that it would be cost prohibitive to make the basement waterproof. But he's got, you know, in the basement, he's now got on the plans and play with all these things. Speak about the garage. So the two issues I heard, he is the whist of it, the 40 feet and the height. Okay, thank you. And the, that's one concern. The second concern, I'm concerned about the process up to this point. Mr. Dosselvar already built out the proposed dormer on the third floor. And I understand that there was no permit for that. And I have a picture of that too, which I'll give you. And some of the information from him seems to have been either incomplete or incorrect. And again, I haven't seen the current plans, but he's, he said to the neighbors that he's proposing to build a, in the part of the lot line that would not be covered by the garage, he's proposing to build a retaining wall so that he can grade his property up to the grade of Virginia Street. Right now, it slopes quite a bit. And again, it's my understanding that you can't do that without submitting those plans. And I haven't seen the plans. So, but by my measurements, that wall is going to be about twice my height. So that's another concern that I have. The whole thing is going to be kind of a massive thing. Thank you. Can we just haul right there? Ms. Mark? What is cited for this? Is this the addition of the dormer and the rear porches and the garage? Is that what's cited on this? So it says that we get built dormers, construct the addition and react and install front rear porches. We can start by an entrance. Build a attach garage with office hole and renovate wall floors. And I want to be clear, I have no objection to any of that, but I would like the garage to be smaller. Thank you. And now we need to just discuss this. Sure. Thank you for your testimony. It should be, does it say attached garage? Um, attached garage with office over. The garage is attached. It is attached by a car port. Okay. And the violations, I think the, the, the, the apartment violations are the FAR excessive, which I suppose is from the dormer. And the accessory buildings in the side are rear yard. Except that the FAR, the office, the office, the, the extra space for the office was not included in Mr. Dusser. There was, um, FAR calculations as far as I could tell. So, I can add some packages, a little bit, have a seat, okay? Thank you. Okay. Okay. Thank you. Well, there's one. Okay. Okay, I guess it's good. So, Ms. Pizani, what do the class tell us? Well, if you have a site plan, these stars are remarkable for not having a site plan. Plop plan? Site plan? If you look at the original, I have a site plan. Plop plan, right? Plop plan, where are you at? And this is it. What's your family doing? Single family. Single family doing? So, I again have a difficult time understanding how this branch uses it. And left rear of the property. It's within a foot, from the side, the property line, and the rear property. How is it attached to your existing house? From the top of the first floor, the roof, we're building on the original plan. It's a carport that goes from the house to the garage. That's how it goes. How tall is it? It's about 10, 12 feet. 12 feet. And that's an addition. It'll be to the garage in the house. That's not part of the addition. That's just the attachment of the garage to the house. And so, for the reason, the reason for attaching the carport, which by definition, is open to the air for long and open to the air for long. Correct. That's personal side walls. Nothing else. And we have the roof. Correct. And the purpose of doing that is to make this an attachment. Satisfied the building department, because if you don't, it becomes... It's a ceiling on a single lot. And it should be considered an access... Access for the building. Exactly. It's a figure of an adaptation, accessory building, because it's more than 25 percent. I think that's how we did review it, as an accessory building, non-intactually. Right. Is that from the citations? Right. We're considering the separate... The separate structures and everything. And, is that any bedrooms with the building with the dorm? There is no increase in bedroom or anything like that. It's just the only reason why the dormer is being touched in the back is only to make a door that's accessory to the inside. There's no gain of flouration per se. It's just that we have a mansard, we're just making it straight. To be able to put a door there to have access to the porch. Right. Because we're getting the cowboy his cash from the deck. Yes. Yes. But if the board, if the board likes, I didn't like the attachment per se. So if the board likes that, taking out, I... Well, what I was getting to was say, if this is treated simply as an accessory building, and if it was not best accessory building, then there is none of these for the cash. So just me that, what's proposed for the accessory structures? There should be no FAR and MADDs. You know, it's the usual thing. No, there's put the dormer. No, no, because it's not an accessory structure. Is it, you know, floor aereration? No, but there's a construction as a dormer and the deck. Right. So what else is proposed for the accessory structure? There's no living space. There's an autism, it's like, this is an stationery complex. Yeah, yeah. This is this. There's an eye. The building's body is long. The artist sits on top of the body for a long breath. The artist is 20 feet long. Yes, it's smaller than the building. It's a home office. Home office. Okay. So we are all clear. We've had testimony in support of that testimony in opposition. May I read the letter from the other of Butter, who is there, and that I'm able to be here? The record, thank you. Okay. I also have. We'll be ready to take care of the people that are, Mr. Dusselvera said that the majority of the neighborhood was, was in favor of this, and I dispute that. These are the people who are opposed to are within 300 feet of the building. We have a motion to approve the Ariadis. May I have a second? All those in favor? All right. Any opposed? We are a design review generally focused on the garage. All over the garage. Only the garage and the walkway? No, because it's all in existence. Okay. Okay. So that's the second. Thank you, sir. Probably the OA37950246, Weaam Street. The purpose of the remodel of an existing has 46 Weaam and had a red with addition, the King Dr. from the very south of the residential residential residential building, including one commercial floor, which is our gallery, and let's go home. The vehicle is a residential or a body to use, which is a violation of Article 3 and Section 3 that is once restricted by a contestant, Article 30 to the Section 0 from the floor, Declare out the building, Article 3, Section 8 to the view, there is two, application, a large project review, Article 64, Section 15, Multi-Planet Residential Drone Unit, which uses additional use, and Article 64, Section 36, last week, loading is insufficient, payment assets for the record. Good afternoon, Madam Chair. Mark LeCasla, 75 Arlington Street, Boston, as the attorney for the applicant. Maybe it's John Holland. Holland Company is 519 Albany Street, Boston. So last week, what was your proposal? We were last before you and deferred to today, because we had not yet completed our Article 80 large project review process, we received BRA Board approval on April 16, 2015, so we have now completed the Article 80 review process. This proposal is to renovate an existing former Piano Factory Building and add a three-story addition on the top of the building. There will be four floors of commercial space, two floors of residential space on the top two floors for a total of 15 residential units. This represents a change from the initial proposal as a result of the Article 80 review process. The various groups in the neighborhood were opposed to the larger residential proportion, so now the split between commercial and residential is 70% commercial space and 30% residential space, because in the EDA, South, Subdistrict, residential use is conditional, so that was largely the concession that was made to the neighborhood. Does that change your zoning violations in any way? It does not. The only three zoning violations that are before you today are conditional use permits for restricted parking, overlay district for the non-residential accessory parking, G-Cod applicability, and we have a letter of approval from BWSC, and the third was for the conditional use for the residential use in the EDA South, so none of the zoning violations are changed as a result of the change in the distribution between commercial and residential. What's the number of bedrooms and the sizes and affordable units? I'm sorry about this, I should have that at hand, but out of the 15 residential units, there is a two of them are affordable for artist use. Out of that, I believe there are 7 one bedrooms, and I guess that would put it 8 two bedrooms. And the size of the one bedrooms? 780 square feet to 820 square feet. Oh, actually, let me scratch that, the affordables we had to increase those sizes, there are 1,000 square feet because to meet the artist's affordables, it's 1,000 square foot minimum. That's why it went from 16 to 15 so that we can combine three units into two to make that. And the affordable housing piece is part of the Article 80 large project review memo from the BRI Board as well. We also have letters of support from the Old Dover, Old Dover Neighborhood Association and the Blackstone Franklin Neighborhood Association, South and Business Alliance as well as various of others on We'reham Street, and also our approval letter under Article 32 from the Boston Water and Sour Commission. Any questions on the board? Have the plans left Mr. Design? Right, I put one administrative question. The drawings that were stamping a dated 524, and these consistent with what the area includes. Ligely on the exterior, they're different consistent, yes. Did they include the thousands square foot affordable units in there? I was only speaking about the exterior of that, the interior of the project is, I would say completely different because it's four floors of commercial and two floors of residential. So the exterior envelope didn't change but the program on the inside changed. We just saw the record that it was just a copy of what the reality actually improved prior to the June 7th. Okay, we'll do. Can anybody else speak in support? Madam Chair, members of the board, Jordan D.C., the Mayor's Office of Native Services, the elected one, our credit support, who have been working with this applicant for quite some time now, and we do appreciate their willingness to work with the neighborhood and honor the zoning code that was rewritten two years ago to support commercial in the area. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, John Allison from Council President Lenny Hans Office, we'd also like to go on record and support and echo the statements of the Mayor's Office. Madam Chair, members of the board, Christian Summary, Gromor, trust if you have the water and sewer letter, and in addition we also have the letter of no harm from the applicant and the audit compliance. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Paul Sol, and we have City Council out loud, Michael Flareding, those go record in support. Madam Chair, members of the board, my name is Dr. Carpenters, and I would like to go on favor in this break. Thank you. Is anybody here in opposition? May I have a motion please? Motion for approval. This is South End. South End. Yes, South End. Is there a second? Sorry. All those in favor? Hi. Any opposed? You're all set to lock the mark. I do. Directly to Derek's office. We'll do. Thank you. Probably hear a wave for four, seven, five, five, nine, one, seventeen, St. Patal Street. For a business to construct, the U19 is went by 25th Ward, powerful group deck above. By the way, is that what you want Section 18 to step back and as they are, regulation to be ready, got permission. The International Weather Reform. Aren't the two architect for the project when Billings Road quincey massed with me is Antonia Capano and Tom Carrattro. Correct. The owner of the property, George Pawns, from Boston Survey. How are you feeling? So as we always ask with our rediscactions, why we put the last on and what has changed the two of us, who we get then? Actually, I was unavailable last time with the ambulance headquarters. So this is starting from scratch? Yes. OK. It's a simple car port on the first floor on the building. I have some photographs of the front and back of the building. And a roof deck on top of it. And the car port, yes. OK. This is the one you have in the clams, look. Dranger adequate. Question about high-density fancines on the deck is why. Second. That's a private secret. Any questions from the board? What kind of community process has that been? We had in a butter's meeting, we talked to most of the neighbors directly. That was the same at the top of the storage association. And the outcome? Is the positive at all? OK. Does anybody have to speak in support of this proposal? My name is Gina Stewart. I'm a resident of 121 St. Batowstreet. I am in support of this project. And I intended the butter's meeting. And there was about eight other neighbors there that were all in support of the project. Thank you. Does anybody here in opposition? Any other questions from the board? Probably looking at the photographs. And the funds may have a motion. Motion. Second. Second. All those in favor? All right. Any opposed? No, we carry to our office. Thank you very much. Probably be away 450-9204 Ringgold Street. The office has the building to expand the smallization of the back of the building, and struct the new roof deck on top of the addition. Violation is Article 32, Section 4, and chief pilot after the building. Article 64, Section 9, Plenty, and ratio is excessive. And Article 64, Section 9, and Ray Hyatt is insufficient. Name an address for the record. Good afternoon, Jay Agarment Attorney for the applicant. With me today is Patrick Mahoney, my associate in the Architect of Record Market Springer. This is an adaptive reuse of the World House about 170 years old. Through community outreach, we actually revised the plans as recently as last week. So I want to make sure you have the latest plans. As a result of those meetings, we have no known opposition. We have several letters of support from the butters. We have not, to my knowledge, submitted the drawings yet to Boston Water and Sewer for the groundwater infiltration. But we have an engineer ready to go. William Doyle will be doing a tried and true tag technique, which is shown on the plans. I'll turn it over to Marcus, please. We've proposed a one story edition in the rear yard. We have hold it back from the lot line, just about five and a half feet. And it's to spend the sort of family room downstairs that we've got on top. The roof deck will be accessed through French doors off of the existing waiting room. And this is going to be a butters party wall or a... It goes to the butters party wall on the other side at number five and number three. Can I read or ask your procedure question? I think because this is G-Cod, we have allowed when someone has done their drawings, and has submitted however, the signature hasn't caught up. We've heard of the drawings actually submitted in the engineering done on this, or is it to be done? To be done. Okay, so the question comes about then. Why are we here? Mr. Dad responds. I do. I had a discussion previously about a month ago. We had discussed the issue of G-Cod. They had committed to meeting the standard. I hadn't received any plans of yet. So that's sort of where we are. Now that they are committed to meeting the requirement, I would at this time request the whole for signature, even though typically like you said, we usually have a set of plans beforehand so that we review to ensure that... My concern, frankly, is that the whole process comes up with a road. That's the why I have it. It's here because of a couple of long changes, but more on the one hand because of the change. Correct. If G-Cod is not in line with the projects, then it should be preferred until it gets caught on. Okay. Because the notion of us holding, as we could be holding for five or how long they can act. Yeah, totally. Until I have it, and this lights a little fire. Okay. I had a request that any applicant that goes, at least, submit the plans to me via email, so that I can take a look at them and I can review them. At least we know that when we hear, as you said, we're in the process of them being reviewed at water and sewer, so I'm comfortable at that point, standing up and requesting a whole signature. But you do make a valid point. Well, I mean, because to my knowledge, it's the first case that we've heard. Correct. Have things build the plans at all? Yeah. I have taken it upon myself since the swimming and the role of executive director to each time the airing list comes out to reach out to the applicant case in point this morning. There was a deferral for 47 Winchester. A resale to the applicant last week and said, I'd advise you to defer because they had hired an architect, an engineer, and they took too long to generate the plans so they had hired another one. So I am on top of it, but, you know, I defer to the board on this. Okay. So that's, I mean, what we quickly managed, here are the merits of this. Yes, and I'm glad that they put the fall. And when they come back, you can almost be called here when the line is done. Okay. I don't know if you just blessed me. Yeah, so I'll look at that. Procedure wise, plan to run, etc. Does anybody had a speak in support of this? I'm Chair and members of the board, our DC and Arizona's obstinated services. I'd like to go on record and support. We had two of our meetings. And they came to the A3's Neighborhood Association. I think A3 has submitted a letter of support. So I hope the G-Cut thing wasn't my fault, but we support. Madam Chair, members of the board, John Allison from Council President Lina-Han's office, we'd also like to go on record and support. Thank you. Does anybody have a hearing opposition? I would recommend the deferral rather than a call for the chair. So may I have a motion? May I have a second? Call those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? The date, please? You have a date of September 1, 1130. Thank you. You can get a picture of that. Follow me away. 457-421-39 first-rate. I have a letter from the attorney, Daniel Cross-Council. They were drawing. I make an emotional dial out of prejudice. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carried. Calling VLA-447-745-1, 51, Liverpool Street. It's the applicant here for Liverpool Street. George Cunning. George Cunning. This is a service as a permit for the 18th and 24th, which is 25 cases to 35 and three stories. Violation. 53-section 12. Full of reiterations. Successive. Article 53. Section 12. Building height is excessive. Article 53-section 12. Usual of the spaces. It's efficient. Not 53-section 12. Ray out of the patient. Article 53-section 56. Parts from the parking. It's efficient. Maybe that's enough. I have to name a matter of chair members and board. My name is Stuart Moran. I'm a member of the business address. I'm 350 West Broadway and so it's paused. Madam Chair, members, this matter was a... Herring substantially on the merits a few weeks ago. The board deferred it at that time because the plans had unfortunately not come over from the Inspectorial Services Department. There was a subsequent hearing before this board. After that first deferral, at which time was deferred again based upon concerns on the Department of Mayor's office and Council on the China's office about some issues that arose with a butters with respect to the building height window placement. My client had an additional, I believe, two meeting meeting butters, certainly one meeting and revised the plans to reduce the height of the building from the initially proposed 59 feet, 58 feet, I'm sorry, to 49 feet. This was done without a reduction in the number of stories the building would remain a five-story dwelling or a reduction in the number of dwelling units. There would be 24 units, 20 of which would be two bedrooms, four of which would be one bedrooms. The reduction in building height was done simply by a compression of the ceiling floor heights within the building to get it down to 49 feet. This is an article... I'm sorry, 22 bedrooms. 22 bedroom units and four one bedroom units, the one bedroom units are all 833 square feet. The two bedroom units range in size from 1,061 to 1212 square feet. There would be 35 parking spaces for the 24 units. The floor area ratio of the project is 2.96. This is an article 80 small project. It was approved by the Boston Readability Authority Board of Directors with the same project specifications, except as, of course, I say it was originally a 58 foot tall building and has been reduced now to 49 feet tall. My client also agreed to remove and relocate to the extent necessary windows on the side of the building, but each side of the building and the rear of the building that neighbors had concerns with in terms of the trussiness into their privacy, and that's something that we would commit to working with the BRA during any post-approval design review process to address those concerns. Does any of the vice plans council just design have certain vines there? 819-15, is there any? Those out of the drawings. Again, the revision is the elevation. Does anybody have to speak in all versions of the 619-15? Anybody have to speak in support of this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the World Classical Area from the Global Services. It's correct. Last time we asked for a different one because we were concerned that we haven't heard any opinions from the abodders. This time we had meetings where we hear some of the concerns from the abodders and we wanted to hear from the developers. They were willing to work with the abodders. The main concerns were raised during these meetings were high. The developers have agreed to go from the 58 to 49 feet so they can address the high, which was one of the main concerns for the abodders. The second concern, once again, was privacy. They were willing to include some of the windows or the window as requested by the abodders on the sides of the rear. The other concern was the number or parking spaces. They have proposed 35 and the abodders have asked that they reduce the number. They agreed to that. Yet from the city, we actually like to keep the 35 parking spaces the reason why is because this is a main concern in the neighborhood. As you know, we do not support the projects because they don't come with parking. This one comes with 35 parking spaces or will be contradictory in themselves if we ask them to take away parking spaces. We understand that some abodders still have other concerns but once again, we would like to present or support at this point. Thanks. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Anybody else in support? Yes. Hi. I'm the owner of 155 and 157 Liverpool Street. What's your name, please? Nigel. Robert Nigel. Excellent. For me, Nigel, Realiki. Now, my concerns on this project here, because this project was brought up forward to you that was supposed to be to put into additional floors. Because this building exists right now. There's a two-storey building. When this was proposed to you, that the height of the building with the two extra floors went to 58 feet. Now, my concern is to say that if the building at the moment, it's a two-level building that is 24 feet, and they bring a proposal to adding two extra floors on this building. They were trying to put 34 feet extra above the 24 feet, which would have brought it to 58 feet. Now, this building here, all of a sudden, they brought it up against the board because this wasn't a pasted on the height of the building. Because I have the building called when it's regarding for the height of this building. The height of this building, for this location, the height of the maximum height is 35 feet. So that would have been on the first proposal that they could not go 58 feet on a four-storey building. So there were approximately 15, about 23 feet. Mr. Nigero, so your concern is height. Microsound is the amount of floors that's being put. Okay, number of floors. What other issues besides the number of floors? The other issue is that if you look on the large page of the drawing, it's becoming because I'm via a button next to this wall. And they got the amount of windows that's facing the left side of this building. It should be the nod inside. I believe he's looking at the drawing. Microsound is that if I could show you pictures because on disbuilding here, the wall that's on the left side of that building, that wall belongs to me. It's on my property. And that wall is up to storage. There was no windows within that wall. So now, with this showing on their plans, they're trying to break down my walls to putting openings for windows. And on the second floor, they want to set back five feet to continue to putting windows. And I have a lot of concerns about that. And it's not just here because all my other buddies, they had to leave because they had a pointless one, many other things. Now, I have a concern, even for the church that's in the back of this building. And if he looks at the architect that's looking at the pitch, if you look at the back of the building, there's about 80% windows there. And they only set him back five feet away from that church wall. There was too many concerns when it's regarding this building that the proposal that they're putting in. Because I'm feeling that this building here is a project going into a disaster. Because there's going to be so many building-coat issues when it regards to this building. When it regards the window, regarding the height. Even regarding emergency exits on this. Because the only emergency exit on this building here is at the front of the building. There is no space around this building. What's so ever that they have in them? That this building is actually like put in, like a cube. And I'm having many concerns. For the church, from my other buddies in the back is because there's another buddy that he has just built right up against the wall. Thank you. Thank you for your testimony. We have to just hold it right there. Can you please respond to some of the issues? Please have a seat, sir. First and foremost, there are no building-coat violations. There's no building-coat refusal letter. There's no evidence of building-coat violations and the plans that would be anticipated in building-coat violations. This project was cited for excessive FAR. Excessive building height is a 35 foot district. Useable open space, rear yard insufficiency, and parking because there are two spaces required once you go to a project that is 10 or more units. Again, this has been an article 80 project that has been reviewed by the Urban Design Step to the R.A. The R.A. was more than comfortable with the parking ratio. The BRR was comfortable with the initially proposed 58 foot building height which has been reduced to 49 feet. In terms of the BRR, I've set back violation that owes to an existing non-conforming structure. The footprint of this building is not being expanded whatsoever. This is truly a vertical addition. Thank you. Mr. Bessani, any members of the Board any further questions? Thank you. Following BOA 447-8725 Lampson Street. The purpose is an installation of a roof deck with spiral decades. The owner of the unit will have a school subuse of the center roof deck. No work in the Ontario War will be performed. The violation of the 53 Section 9 will be set back as insufficient and the 53 Section 4 extension of non-conforming infrastructure. Thank you. Good morning. My name is Attorney James O'Malley and I'm here on behalf of GA Town of Management in the really so-called New Developer 5 Lampson Street. So why were you put up for the last time? We deferred because I contacted Claudia from May of the North American Neighborhood Services and Council of the Latinass Office and they are interested to get in touch with Jeffries Point Neighborhood Association. They have a two meeting process so we weren't able to do the community process. Have you got it since? Yes, we have. We met with them twice as you know and as they overwhelmingly supported us. And so this is a proposal and was that this project come before this board prior for the construction of the condos or...? Yes, I didn't. I wasn't involved in that but it did. It came prior to that and the roof deck wasn't at the end so no interior work was done on this program. So there was no provider back no roof deck on the initial patient was there? No, I guess there was not. I wasn't involved in that project so there was no why it was left up but it was not. How do you plan for this design? I have a question. Any other questions from the board? Anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the World Clinic of the Neighborhood Services, we would like to thank the recording support. They have a percentage of numerous community meetings and they have support as a proposal. Thank you. We have a few minutes to go and get this in Council. Salamadine is the assistant one of the participants. Thank you. Is anybody here in opposition? Motion please? Motion to parole be our entire design review district deck access. Thank you. All those favourites? Any opposed? We're all set for that by itself. Calling the EOA for a 6.5, 877 to the 4th Patterson Street. Breakfast is in installation of a 38th for residential driveway. Violation type 9 section 1. Two dwellings on one lot. Article 65 section 9. Open space and satisfaction. Payment address for the record. Ten to her and a hundred Hallows Street, dosos, the mess. Why did you depose the last time? Because the plans were available at 10 to 10 mess. Have when the hearing is still... Not long enough? Yes. You have a copy. In the meantime, tonight here, kind of anybody can see I just speak in support of this proposal? Does anybody in support? Is anybody here in opposition? Pay and the weekend, how do the plans look? Mr. Pazani? Roger. And this is two dwellings on one lot and this is a 38th for driveway. Correct. How many cars is this supposed to... Two? Two cars. And this looks like it's an existing curb cut. There was never a curb there, but they were using it as a driveway. They just want to make a double wide so they could put a car next to two cars next to each other. Is that parking on that side of the street? There's no parking allowed on that side of the street. Okay. Is there a second? All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? You're all set? Thank you. Going back to the early case called B-O-A-448-5-8-6-2-9-2-9-8. Just look at it. There's now 124. I'm going to make more of your time. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? You're all set. We have a interpretation called B-O-A-472-4223-5-Bremund Terrors. Here, in that chair, I was informed of the one that they used to use the decision and agreement made last time in that neighborhood. Based on that information, may I have a motion? Of course, but I will. Thank you. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? So we're all set? All right. Mr. Brewer, are you here for a project? Okay. Excellent. So we've reached the last part of our agenda. Is with the recommendations. This was based on the meeting that we had on Thursday June 18th. The subcommittee met and this is to inform the rest of the board and to request their endorsement of these recommendations. B-O-A number 45, 1869, 55 Green Street, board 2. This was a request for a post-war rear deck that was recommended approval. B-O-A 468, 324, 715, Beach Street. This was a request to remove the previous takeout proviso, which was approved. The next case was B-O-A number 46, 10, 16, 16, doorchester, around you. Again, this was a request to remove the takeout proviso. That was approved. B-O-A number 46, 48, 67, 633, center street ward. This was for a community kitchen. This back was approved. B-O-A number 46, 24, 33, 10, 10, 8, walk, hill, street. Again, this was ward 19. This was a request to remove the takeout proviso, which was approved. But out with the R.A. Design Review for exterior work. BZC number 46, 54, 47, 7th Brian Road for 20. This was a 380 square foot post-war edition. That was approved. B-O-A number 46, 75, 77, 25 Parham Street for 20. This was for a second floor edition. This was also approved. B-O-A number 46, 15, 70, 65 Northdale Road. This was for a sign-nord edition. Also approved. B-O-A number 46, 27, 25, 8, Willow Street. This was a far-off five. This was Willow Street in ward 20. This was for a 500 square foot edition. To extend living space into the basement, and that was approved. We have a motion to- Motion to be recommended for the committee. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? And on Humboldt Street, Humboldt-A. This was also listed here. It was B-O-A number 46, 31, 92. Two or five, two or nine, Humboldt-A. War 12, it was denied without prejudice. I don't think the applicant showed on that one. So, also two people called that one. Motion to be recommended for the night without practice. All those in favor? Aye. Motion carries. Meeting is a challenge. Music. Music. Music. Music. Music. Music. Music. Music. Music. Music. Music. Music. Music. Music. Music. Music. Music. Music. Music. Music.