 you you you Mr. 11 a.m. We had to. And before we do that, we'll ask if we have any requests for what we'll be all so to grow from the side for. Madam Chair, this is their exact person architect for 15 West Tremblin. We would like to request a short throw. We found that Mr. Symbrich. That would be for case B.O.A. 151. 0209. What the adios of 15 West Tremblin Street. Would you like to avoid? Yes, the order would like to make a few small changes based on the neighborhood. The recent neighborhood, the exact drawing, they're actually already changed to reflect that. I thought we'd want to resubmit them because they're not the same as what you see before you. And the three units in five parking. Great. Thank you. Samantha, I think you said we're going to July. Yes, that's correct, Madam Chair. The next available date is July 16th. We're going to. Okay, but that may have a motion. I make a motion to defer to July 16th. Is that the date Samantha? That is correct, Madam Chair. Thank you. May I have a second? Thank you. Mr. Symbrich. Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Is that a browser? Yes. Yes, we will. He has. Mr. Langen. Yes. Dr. Eakin. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. We can see. Any further questions or would you all? I will defer to this not correct. Hearing none, we will go to case B.O.A. One five two companion cases. Case B.O.A. One five six two one seven nine. The address of 75 fourths and three. Along with that, we have case B.O.A. One five six five zero three. Also with the address of 75 fourths and three. The applicant can stand who they represent. The applicant who the board plays. Yes. Good morning. Everybody. This is PD Vanderwild on the owner of hybrid construction and development. Representing my clients at 75 fourths and three. The project is an exclusive. There's a miswording on the application, which I understand where the confusion came from. On the application that you guys put down, it says common rubect that's actually inaccurate. It's a deeded roof deck to one of the two units that resides on the top of the bill top floor of the building. They have exclusive rubect rights to one side of the roof and the other occupant neighbor there's on the top floor has exclusive rubect rights and existing deck that's been there for a while. My clients want to build a new deck. Previously there hadn't been a deck up there with their rubect rights. This deck would be in the back left corner of the building adjacent to the alley behind the public alley behind. And the issue here for both of the code violations that you referenced a couple minutes ago refers to root access and egress. It's the client had put in a staircase access directly from their unit. This would be an as of right situation, but the layout that they have basically doesn't provide for them to put an internal staircase to get to the root. Therefore, the only access currently is through a head house that's access through the common hallway. So even though they have exclusive roof deck rights, the way the city reads the code is that, you know, any way they can go up there unclattered and have access to the roof even though they technically don't have roof deck rights up there. Somebody can technically go out there and therefore you need a second means of egress. Currently, the only means of egress is through the one head house common area going down. There is a fire stair, fire balconies on the backside of the building that extend up to the top floor, but not the roof. Our drawings and proposal, which is part of what's triggering the code issue is an extension of that fire balcony, a diagonal extension up directly to the root deck providing second means, access and then any modification through a fire escape, you know, is a variance issue. There's also the adjacent buildings on either side, which can be stepped over easily to get to either building, but ISD does not consider that illegal forms of the second means of egress. So we've proposed that staircase that you see on the drawing there, kind of on the top of the middle of the sheet, the diagonal going up to the roof that will allow that access. We've gone through the two neighborhood processes. We've got new run and we had a new unanimous vote, no opposition with them and then any WNC as well. We did about a month and a half ago. Same thing, both unanimous, no opposition for both neighborhood groups, one of our presentations. Additionally, I had a Zoom room with Ciara on the neighborhood reach out and we also fly the surrounding areas and they had zero opposition and we followed through the community process and that's basically the summary. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Do you access the roof deck just from the exterior stair on the unit below? No, they would go out there and the front door of their apartment into the common hallway and then just their cases right there. It's in a common, technically it's in a common area that anybody in the building can access through the common hallway system. So that's what's triggering all of this. I mean, I'm sure the BPDA made some comments and I would have to agree with them regarding kind of the lack of drawings to show existing conditions and access to the roof deck. Yeah, the comments are questions. I think I'm, I like the way and I think it's not that you could conserve me and it's the fact that of course the decision here stands for a very long time. So if there's access in the common area and there's concerns with means of egress, not sure that we know for the future that it can be prevented the access by not just the unit owner. So again, it's less for me the use of the roof deck and with the neighborhood groups have signed off on but also the building code issues and the items that the BPDA raises in their review. Thank you. Any other questions or comments? Mr. Hampton, do you want to just win as well officially? Sure, thank you Madam Chairman. This is the board, just Hampton BPDA. Yeah, it was very vague on the relationship of this new deck versus the existing one, which is a decent size. I can actually see it from my window. And you know, the access egress from the second deck was concerned for us. That's why we didn't really feel comfortable about making sort of any final determination on this and we'd like to take another look at it. Thank you. Are there any? I'm sorry. Let's move to a public testimony and then we can circle back to the applicant. And Chairmembers of the Board are honored and with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This time the Mayor's Office deferred to the judgment that's boarded some background information in the community process. When I saw St. Apollar's meeting on January 30th, the applicant then went on to meet with New Rock and New Nick, the two active civic groups for that area, both provided no objections to the proposal without deferred to the board this time. Thank you. Chairmembers of the Board is the question part from Councillor Poletta's office at this time. Councillor Poletta would like to go on the record with no opposition of this proposal. Thank you. You said there's no opposition. I just want to confirm. No opposition. Thank you. Sorry, Mayor. I have no response. Thank you. Thank you. But the applicant would like to respond to the questions, flash concerns that were raised? Yes. I believe I can and I'm happy to take any direct questions as well, but just to comment on some of the previous comments from the Board. Currently there is a single head house. So up in the roof currently there's one existing deck that looks like it's been there for over 20 years. Looks pretty old. That's belonging to the neighbor of my clients on the top floor. Basically there's a head house dead center in the building. It's two former buildings that were condoted in one combined building back in the 80s or whatever that happened. They put a single head house. It means we rate dead center middle of the two buildings like right up against the parapet, the center parapet. And that's currently how you access the roof. The my client side of the roof, which if you're looking at the building from full street is on the left, the entire left side. They have exclusive rights to. They can currently only access that, you know, going out there door and then going up the staircase that's technically common access. Or could be accessed through the common areas by anyone, I guess, which is turning the photo shoot where they would put the deck would be in the back. The last corner of the building. So there's no visible physical vehicle public way. There's no high issues. Nothing exceeds the zoning with regards to the height of the deck in relation to the top of the head house, which is the. What they need to go by for high restrictions. And basically they would walk up to the top of the. Head house and right outside walking to the back. Left. So the building would be the any other reason anybody else would need to access through farther, you know, each face is up there or any other. No, there's there's some there's some venting systems, you know, for laundry and plumbing, but there's no central HVAC unit. There would only be, you know, contractor maintenance if they're a group lead. And I've never seen I've been up there. Now we've been trying to come at this for over a year now and going through the whole process. And I've never seen anybody up there. So it's a pretty quiet building. And there's really no need for any of the other occupants. No, no, no, no, no. Any other questions from the board? If not, may I have a motion? Madam Chair, I think the applicant needs to submit existing condition drawings of egress to the building and out of the building. And for that reason, I'm putting forward motion deferral. Is there a second? Chair, okay. Mr. Stambridge. Yeah. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Is better Valaza. Yes. This we will. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Mr. Aiken. I appreciate all the explanations, but I agree with the need for the existing conditions information. Thank you. Okay, Chair also votes yes. The motion carries Samantha. We can do July 16th or July 30th, depending on time needed to update the plans. I believe we already have the plans that I'm, that's like an exception, including them in the packet, what you're looking to see. So we can do July 16th. Okay. Thank you. And please include a plan of the unit as well. We'll love the deck. No problem. Thanks. Thanks, everybody. Next we have case, not super penny cases. Case B, away. 156, 5484. The address of funds is really rather square. Or on the deck, we have case B, away. 156, 5482. Also with the address of funds, the real problem square. If the applicant general, the ground is at its bottom, the explanation for the board is closed. Sure. My name is Tim Shannon, I'm an architect at Nine Wall Street. I'm working on this project. What we're looking for is relief, because what we're trying to do is add a mud room at the ground floor, which will be 50 square feet. We've already received approval from the building, from ISD, for the second floor, because that meant the underlying zoning. So that was another 50 square feet rule out. There's also a mansard currently at the top floor of the building with four skylights. We'd like to change that to a dormer, which also requires zoning relief, because it's all to my roof line. And then we would like to put a roof deck on top, which basically matches the house next door at number 21. We've already talked to Southam Lear Marks Commission. They're okay with it, but we have to go through zoning for us before we go to them. But we've had our neighborhood meeting with the, we decided we were going to the neighborhood meeting, and then we also went before, and Square City, or the association, I think we went twice. So we've met with all the neighbors, and this is what we're trying to do. We're looking for 73 square feet, and that there's, you know, that's that caused the floor area ratio problem, because we're already over as it sits. And with that, I'd leave it to you. Thank you. Questions from the board? You're in that may I public testimony? Is there public testimony? I see no rest, hands. Sorry, Madam Chair, I got picked out. I don't aware of any concerns this time. I want to ask those new buzzer's meeting. And the applicant went to the pilot block neighborhood association. I understand they did not have any concerns either. Without a refer to the board. Thank you. All right. Thank you. Without me, I have a motion. Madam Chair, I'd like to put forward a motion to approval with a proviso that the drawings be submitted to Boston Landmark Commission, and that the applicant can also be granted a building co-operated to allow for their revenge. Is there a second? Check it. Mr. Stubbridge? Yes. Mr. Valencia? Mr. Valencia? You are new. Okay, we'll keep going. Mr. Barrazo? Yes. As we will? Yes. Mr. Lignum? Yes. Mr. Aiken? Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Oslo-Voshenkary? Thank you, everybody. Bye. Next, we have a B-O-A, 157-4023, with the address of 650 East Broadway, the applicant in the annual representative present who they explain. Yes. Thank you, Mr. Stubbridge. Madam Chair, members of the board, Attorney Ryan Spitz with Adams and Marancy Business Adder, 168-H Street First, North-South Boston. On behalf of the applicant today, the proposal in front of you is to change part of its current occupancy, specifically the occupancy on the second floor, from general offices to a beauty salon, professional offices for a therapeutic spot in an HACU puncher studio, in general offices. By way of history, this property was a small project under an agglady, and approved by the B-P-D-A board, and then approved by this board in 2019 to construct a four-story mixed-use development project, where a first floor was a restaurant space, second floor was general offices, and third in fourth floors were residential units. The proposal was in the zoning sub-distant of MFI local services, located on the main street where small businesses are encouraged. The violation cited are all for use of the proposed occupancy on the second floor as it is forbidden. In fact, if the uses were located on the first floor in the sub-district, they would be in allowed use. Again, the project had previously gone to this board and received zoning relief to allow for general office to exist on the second floor, as this use was consistent with other uses as similar properties along East and West Broadway. Including, we are asking this board to approve the variances as it would further the goals of the city to propose small businesses to stop and grow in this neighborhood. At this point, I'm going to pause for any questions or comments from the board. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Hearing none, may I put with testimony? Madam Chair, members of the board, Lydia Bassi with the Nurse Office of Neighborhood Services. The proponent alerted the neighborhood of this proposal via a flyer and provided proof to our office that a butter has been communicated with. We similarly received no letters of support or opposition and are unaware of any concerns at this time, we would like to refer to the judgment of the board. Thank you. Members of the board, Councillor Flynn would like to go on record in support based on a good coming off list. And no opposition received from our office. This is a previously approved project and the change of business is intended to add to the economic. Allady of the community, Councillor Flynn respectfully request that the team continue to work mostly with neighbors on any quality of life issues. Thank you. I have no additional waste hands. Thank you. Is that a motion? I'm listening to a number one. That was second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Is better browser. Yes. Is we welcome? Yes. Mr. Wang. Yes. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Yes. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Mr. Mrs. Luixess the heavy power out government of dangerous Existing zoning is multifamily residential and local services. There is one commercial space on the first floor of this building and there are eight residential units above. The applicant presented in the community process included a meeting with the condominium board and a butters meeting, an onsite meeting with Council of Flynn, presentation to the West Broadway neighborhood association and has received letters to support on the West Broadway neighborhood association and director butters, which substantially that there is widespread support for this use. This space, this commercial space has been taken for quite some time. There was a one director butter who requested sound attenuation measures be taken on the interior of the space and the proponent will is willing and will work with his architect to make sure that that is addressed appropriately. And we ask that the board approve this conditional use permit. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Hearing long, man. I'm just a blink. Sorry? Mr. Haken? Sorry, I'm just want to check all on the disability's commission question about whether or not there's accessible seating. Mr. Haken? I believe that I don't see it expressly reflected on the plan, Mr. Haken, but I can assure the board that there will be adequate, provisional or accessible. Thank you. Thank you. Mayor Fobo-Tasco-Money? Well, I'm Madam Chair and I'm Mrs. Boyle-Lady-At-Fassi with the Nurse Opposite Neighborhood Services. In a better's meeting was hosted in regards to the proposal and the proponent presented before the West Fobo Neighborhood Association. Both forums, the proposal was generally met with support. A couple of notes as the proponent mentioned being noise mitigation. A trash management was brought up and kind of the cadence of delivery drivers and in the front of the building and the proponent has been communicating with a lot of these abouters in regards to that. And there's an effort to kind of mitigate those concerns. Aside from that, our officers received two letters of support. In addition to one letter from the West Fobo Neighborhood Association, we have received no letters of opposition. At this time, we would like to refer to the judgment of this board. Thank you. Thank you. Go ahead, I'm Chair and member. Thank you. Sorry. Good morning, Madam Chair. Madam Chair and members of the board. This has been S.F. I'm Councillor Flynn's office. Councillor Flynn, could you go on there? We're going to support based on the process. And feed back from neighbors and the West Fobo Neighborhood Association. He respectfully requests. Okay. He respectfully requests that the team continue to work closely with neighbors on any quality of life issues that may arise. Thank you. Thank you. Hey, Nathan? Such a request to unmute you. Hey, I think a couple of times to speak. I'm a resident of 75 West Fobo Neighborhood. I'm also representing some of the other direct subudderers who were able to make this time today. We did have some concern to the emergency proposal, particularly about its examination and stance. Our concern is that this unit was not purposeful. For a restaurant, it was built for retail and a bank. So obviously 55 patrons is a significant increase in addition to having me look going on. We had asked for some issues to address that. We haven't received any information commitment yet to concern as to right now the way it's constructed. The ceiling of the unit is exposed. And we've had feedback that it will remain meant by based on some past experience. We know that we will lead to some serious body life issue because we will be able to hear our sound down there. And we're looking for more commitment to make some compromises on that and work with that. I was also surprised to hear the close opening with 8 p.m. we were told 6 p.m. earlier. So I just want to address the habits that another issue that we're kind of aware of. Thank you. Thank you. And additional resistance. Would the applicant like to address the hours and the noise mitigation concerns? Yes. I understood the hours to be until 8 p.m. It's possible that the applicant will, because this is a new business in this location, will open up initially until 6 p.m. that he is an experienced restaurant tour. He will be on site and regarding the sound mitigation, I think that what the abider Nathan may have missed but I was included on which was an email exchange between Patrick Pereira and Nathan just yesterday assuring him that the sound attenuation measures would be taken and that Mr. Pereira would work with his architect and engineer to make sure that it is addressed appropriately. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? May I have a motion? Madam Chair, I'll put forward a motion and approve. There's second. Second. Mr. Stunbridge? Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Mr. Berranson? Yes. Mr. V. Will? Yes. Mr. Langeman? Yes. Mr. Aiken? Are you with the minister? Yes. Thank you. Chair also votes yes, the motion carries. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, members of the board. Next, we have case B08154-7104 with the address of 315 North of Canada. If the applicant and all their representatives present, they can provide the case to the board. Madam Chair, yes, Madam Woodward. Madam Woodward, speaking on behalf of the owner, Mr. Putin, again, who is here with me, this project is the proposal to remove an existing single family and replace it with a triple-decker with three-off street parking spaces. This is an L1 zone, but the street is largely residential on this side of the street. The neighborhood has issued letters of support, all letters have been notified, and the applicant is also a member of the Montgomery Street neighborhood initiative. And the mayor's office has received no opposition. Great. Questions from the board? Hearing none, may I have a public testimony? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, honored in with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. As you heard from the applicant, Owen has previously held in the butter's meeting. This was on March 18th. Then the applicant subsequently reached out to the local neighborhood association, where offices unaware of any concerns, having street zero letters and support or opposition, at this time would refer to the board. Thank you. Hello, Madam Chair, members of the board, Liam Ames from Council for the Seattle Office. I'd like to invite you on to the board of the proposal. Would you like to see the additional waste gas? Would that be a motion? A motion to approve this project. Do you want BPA, BPD, exactly? Okay, design the bill. Yes, ma'am, I'm sorry. Thank you, ma'am. A second. Second. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Is better for us, though? Yes. Mr. Rueow? Yes. Mr. Lainon? Yes. Mr. A.J. Yes. Chair also votes yes. The motion carries. Thank you very much, Madam Chair. As we just approached the 1130, I'll ask if there are any requests for the draw, for the first time in the year. Yes. Hello, Madam Chair, members of the board. Mary Kate Campbell with a lot of questions. Dr. Gondola, 11B, can you read the number two to file the request? The first is at 261 Princeton Street and continuing to work with the community. We made other changes to the projects. So we're just requesting a deferral to submit those updated points for review. So if I hear your correct, then that would be for case of the OA 154 0041, the address of 261 Princeton Street. Yes. And also case of the OA 154 0166, also with the address of 261 Princeton Street. Yes. So if you just want to pause, I understand the Spanish interpreter was requested for this. If they're present, can they identify themselves and just interpret what transpired? I don't know, just give, you know, if they're in or not. I think so. Okay. Okay. I'll leave it on. Yeah. Just let it, you know, with the questions about it. So if you want to raise your hand. Okay. Well, if not, let's proceed and hopefully we can make that statement, you know, when the interpreter comes off. So, Ms. Campbell, I think the dates available are in July. Samantha, do you want to reconfirm? That is, Coach, Madam Chair. We have a date of July 16th, or a date of July 30th. The 16th or? Okay. Would that man have a motion? I will make a motion until deferred to July 16th. Is that a second? It's a second. Mr. Stubbridge? Yeah. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Is that a brazo? Yes. Ms. Ruello? Yes. Mr. Langham? Yes. Mr. Eiken? Yes. Sure. Also votes yes. The motion carries. Thank you. In our second deferral request is for 1,35, Part 3. Attorney, do I know how to go to the country? So, we're just requesting that this matter be heard of the next available period. Scroll down with the 4k's, be away. 1527.95. Would you have your 1,35, Part 3? Correct. Okay. I think the next available dates are still in July. The next one is July 16th, by the chair. Okay. So may I have a motion? Make a motion to defer until July 16th. Is there a second? That's fair. Second. Mr. Stubbridge? Yeah. Mr. Valencia? Yes. It's a better brazo. Yes. Ms. Ruello? Yes. Mr. Langham? Yes. Mr. Eiken? Yes. Chair also votes yes. The motion carries. Thank you. If it's that, no more requests will move to the last case, it's getting from London Club, which is case B08, 157, 705, the address of 2 to 10 H4 in the street. This is part of the case. And if the applicant and all the representatives vote, will there explain first? Thank you, Mr. Stubbridge. Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Attorney John Colgini of the As of M.B. Development in their proposal at 2 to 10 H4 in street and right. With me today is Keith Gray, Senior Director of M.B. Development, together with Rob Desalvo, and the staff of M.B.R.K. who is the team architect. Thank you for allowing us to present this proposal today. 2 to 10 H4 in street is also known as 131 North Beacon Street. The lot size is 22,822 square feet. The zoning is local industrial too. Currently, the site is a 22,822 square foot lot with a vacant one-story commercial building. This site is entirely comprised of asphalt and over a 100 foot curb cut. The curb condition will be reduced 12 feet, providing significant pedestrian safety. And as this business has been vacant, there is no displacement associated with this development. The proposal before you is a construction of a six-story mixed-use condominium building. 76 residential homoyship condominiums, 45 off-street parking spaces, and approximately 3,000 square feet of first low retail. This proposal was an article 80 large project and was approved by the VPD Board in December. The underutilized site is a perfect location for such a development, providing 76 homoyship condominiums, an area that has predominantly seen rentals. This six-story building will provide six significant public well improvements, and fantastic street activation with first low retail space and a building that is pursuing passive house standards of energy efficiency. We will be providing 45 internal parking spaces, 25% of which will be EV ready, 76 interior bike spaces, 16 visitor bike spaces, and this proposal is less than a five-minute walk to Boston landing train station. This proposal is located within the guest street planning study whose goal is to develop these underutilized commercial buildings, although not yet codified. This proposal complies with the dimensional and density recommendations from that planning study. Finally, we're pleased to report that we'll be providing 13 affordable units, which brings the IDP percentage to 17%, and some of the AMIs is lowest 60%. As to the community benefits, this project will provide significant public well improvements, including closing a curb cut to 12 feet, from 100 over 100 feet to 12 feet for pedestrian safety, lighting sidewalks for better pedestrian experience, a 25,000 dollar donation to the city park's thumb to be directed to the nearby McKinney Park, $49,000 to the BTD for the insulating installation of a blue-like station, hundreds of great paying construction jobs and increased tax revenue for the city. As this was an article 80, this proposal went through a full community process. We received full support in our public meeting, support from the Brighton Austin Improvement Association, as well as the All-Sensific Association. Again, thank you for allowing us to present this proposal before you this today, and at this point, I'll turn it over to Rob Bell Salvo to walk to the plants. Thank you very much. I have a question. I was going to say, are there any particular zoning issues you want to run up like just to— Do you want to move in? As I stated, you know, the guest-greed study was— I went through a long-claning study. with this meat that study is just the reason why we're here today is because the guest feet landing study was never out of fine into the zoning code. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? Any questions to have? Do you have a retail tenant lined up for the project? We don't yet. We're trying to work to see if we can get a local business that would like relocated to a newer building that could expand space and have better, you know, better everything basically, but much more obvious placement for a business to be successful. Because as you know, I'm a sped up, so this is just on the outside of the new balanced area of Boston landing. Great. Thank you. Enough of the questions. Thank you. May we have public testimony? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board. Frank Mendoza, Mayor's Office of the Neighborhood Services here. The applicant did present to you both of the local civic associations, the Austin Civic Association, President Anthony Dastoros on to testify so their stance. Right now, Senator Ruben, the association voted to support. With that said, we'd like to defer to the judgment of the board at this time. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Annabelle Gomes to the Brighton Elsie and Improvement Association. I was also an IAG member of this project and on the guest street study that outlined the study area for this. The BIA voted to support this project. The IAG was very much in favor of this project as well. We think it's consistent with the zoning laid out in the guest street study area and we do feel that new balance has been a great partner but bringing the train station to the area has really opened the doors for a lot of housing and affordable housing. So we'd like to go and record and support as a BIA and myself as an IAG member. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, this is my upper-restrapercent in the carpenter's sheening. We have a hundred semen carpenter's that we've worked for. I see the boss of what we've got in the relationship for. Yes, I'm the original one, since. Thank you. Do that may have a motion? I'm sure I may have motion to approve in I want to make a comment that I appreciate seeing that they have a couple of our our our units for 60% to 70% area may income. Thank you. Is there a second? Sure, good. It's just average. Yeah. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Is that a browser? Yes. Does we roll? Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Mr. Eiken. Yes. Chair also votes yes. The motion carries. Thank you everybody. Now move on to the discussion schedule for 11th early. The first two cases are put in the front and the first three cases. And that will take us to case and be away. One five five six two three four. With the address of 99 L Street. If the applicant and or their representative. President will make sure the case is in the board. Thank you Mr. Stembridge. I'll be wanting to know chair members of the board. I am maternity Kevin Joyce of 50 frame street Boston. Austin representing the petitioner's clear and Kyle Brown. The Browns Army side with the two two three young children at the two and one half story. One film we building at 99 M Street in Charleston. Zoning us three of two thousand residential. We are proposing a second story bedroom edition of the room for the existing rear side of the Browns home where there is currently a roof deck. The new bedroom will add only a total of 208 square feet of living space which will allow the Browns growing family to remain in Charleston while term. We have a side yard and a radio violation. The non conformity of both the side and radio are pre-existing as the first floor portion of the proposed addition is already built in our computer. There will be no change to the massing of the fourth way or the existing structure and the proposed addition will not encroach on the existing side or may any more than the existing first floor structure. The completed alterations will have no change on the existing argument seat, the use of the building. We have a shadow study filed with the board. The study means facts that the addition would not have any detrimental impact on a body properties and adjacent roof deck for seven months out of the year with no detrimental impact at all the length spring to the summer and into where we fall with roof decks are typically a use. The study also shows that the addition would not impact the second story window or the budding one on one out of street. Four of the graphs also filed with the board show that when a tree canopy exists from length spring through the fall the bunk hill monument is blocked from view from the rear yards of both 99 and one on one out of street. Mr. Kassar, I would like to thank you for the opportunity to be happy to walk the board. The ready of the plans, studies and photos that I have referred to this morning. Of course we would be glad to answer any questions. Thank you. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? You're an admin public testimony? Madam Chair, members of the board, shall we bring with the mayor's office and their board services? Excuse me. In the board's meeting for 99 on street was held on January 24, 2024. Since that time this office has received eight letters in support, making note of the fact project is statically in line with the immediate surroundings and provide space to keep a child some family and child some. There has also been two letters in opposition which make note of possible reduction of sunlight in space for their homes. With that we would defer our judgment to the board. Thank you. Madam Chair, I have no additional questions. Madam Chair, I have a motion. Madam Chair, I'd like to put forward a motion to approve on. With those second. Second. Mr. Stubbridge. Thank you. Yes. Thank you. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Davasel. Yes. Mr. Mungal. Yes. Mr. Wylam. Yes. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Chair also votes yes. The motion carries. Thank you, Madam Chair. And next we have case B08. 1, 4, 4, 5, 5, 4. With the added to be 16 high street. If the applicant and the other members of the president, will they explain what? Yes. Thank you, Mr. Stubbridge. Madam Chair, members of the board of 30 Ryan Spits, with Adam Zimmerian. He is the address of 168 H Street First floor, self-hosted. I am here on behalf of the applicant today. Also joining me on the project. Next, Mr. Anthony Pazani and Mr. Bill Pequette. This is a proposal preserving the existing three-fittingly structure and constructing a new three-story rare addition that will increase the size of the building and unit account to nine residential units within a three F 5000 sub-district on a lot size of approximately 12,219 square feet. The puzzle is very close to many other dense multi-fim buildings on Hancock Street and Doochester Avenue. Recently on High Street, there were two of projects recently approved by this board, 15 units at 22 High Street, which is directly to the right of this puzzle, and 31 units located at 29 High Street, just the name of few. The erection of the multi-fiming dwelling is in line with the planning goals of increasing the city's housing stock while filling gaps in neighborhood main street corridors and complementing the scale and form of existing buildings. The applicant understands the need to create more affordable housing opportunities and even though not required to do so, it has committed to intermittent agreement with the office of housing to offer one unit as affordable. If I can put your attention on page 15, please. A 10-foot wide curb cut will be relocated to the left-hand side of the property, which will lead to the below grade parking. Basement level will consist of parking for nine vehicles, five steering spaces, four compact spaces. Also within the basement, there will be a life storage, mechanicals, a trash room, and elevator access. Page 16, first floor plan will contain units one through three, or all two better units ranging from approximately 960 square feet to 280 square feet. Page 17 will be the second floor plan that will contain units four through six, all two better units ranging from approximately 1035 square feet to 1280 square feet. And then page 18 will be the third floor plan will contain units seven through nine, one one bedroom, one two bedroom, and one three bedroom ranging from approximately 680 square feet to be the one bedroom specifically to 1495 square feet, which would be the three bedroom. Page 19 will reflect the roof plan, which will consist of mechanicals and exclusive roof decks for units seven through nine that will be enclosed within the middle of the roof deck and not visible to the street. We have violations for use as we are proposing nine units in the three F sub district, but the proposal again is in line with the planning goals of imagined Boston 2030 of increasing housing stock. We have a four area ratio violation, we're proposing a 1.04 and a point five is compliant. The proposed density aligns with the goals outlined in the planning context of allowing wood density for mixed use corridors. Hite and stories violation, we have violations in both. The proposal calls for three stories in 39 feet, two and a half stories and 35 feet is compliant. The height of the proposed addition is greater than that of the existing building height by approximately four feet. Further, the grading of the project site is such that the top of the roof of the addition is not above the top of the roof that is remaining in the front of the building. We do violations for side yard and rear yard. The goal calls for a 10 foot side yard setback in a 30 foot rear yard setback. The extension of the building beyond the side setback requirements is minimal and limited to the building court is that create a 7 foot six inch setback but average rate of the 10 feet along the remainder of the proposed building. The rear of the parcel backs up to a retaining wall with the reduced setback but there is a separation between the project site and the development that abots in a car street. Additionally, the regular shape of the rear edges of the parcel leads to the setback that measures approximately 22 feet and six inches but the average distance is greater than the 30 foot requirement. The proposed setbacks are conforming per onical 65-42.9 of the zoning code as the average setback exceeds the requirements and at no point is the proposed building less than 75% of the required log lines. Therefore, it is our opinion that violations should not have been cited. We also have a parking insufficiency code requires one space for the first three new units of housing and then 1.25 spaces for units for the additional units for the 9. The three existing units would not require parking space thus amounting this proposal to provide 6.75 parking spaces since the proposal calls for 9 total parking spaces. We believe this violation should not have been cited. At this point in time, I am going to pause and turn it over to the board for any questions or comments or concerns. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Hearing none, may I public testimony? Yes, Madam Chair and members of the board. Honourning with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This time, the Mayor is off-liked to defer to the judgment of this board. O and S conducted two of others meetings for this proposal. During that time frame, there were changes made to the proposal with one unit pledging to be income restricted as well as some fairings as eliminated during the community process. The applicant went on to meet with the Meeting House Hill SIDA Group, which voted to oppose this proposal. Our office also received 32 letters in opposition, some from a butters, others from members of the broader community that expressed their opposition due to concerns with the density as well as concerns that they are seeing a lot of development in this part of doorchester. Without information, we will defer to the board this time. Thank you. Councillor McPitch, do I have a question? Madam Chair, members of the board, the chairman is from Councillor Fitzgerald's office. We recognize there has been a lot of development on high street over the last few years, and there is concern from the neighborhood that the area is oversaturated. Our office believes that the proposal for 16 high street is reasonable for its large size, and our office would like to go on record and support. Councillor Warrant, what is this? We are a matter of chairrooms of the board. My name is I am Daniel. We will be off to the City Council of Rural, and as everything that was previously stated, in addition to that, the Meeting House Hill SIDA Association sent a letter of opposition, and with that being said, the council lets go on record and opposition as well. We will go on record and then Jim. Madam Chair, members of the board, Joe McAfran, City Councilor Aaron, but if you are office, we would like to go on record and support. We did have one note that we would ask to proponent to be cognizant of the noise mitigation when we are working at the site. Warnings and events. Thank you. Thanks, Edward. Edward, you are muted. We can hear you at the circle. Oh, hello. Yeah, Bob. That's exactly right. Hi, Jim. Jim will be represented. Good morning, Chair, Madam Chair, members of the board. Thanks for hearing me. Representing the Meeting House SIDA Association, and our issues of concern, and they are as well as out of the touch of me quick. I know you're going to lunch soon. One is that we have just had a whole bunch of buildings built at the bottom of the hill within shouting distance of this unit, this building. There's 484 rental units at the dot block rental apartment building. There's 36 rental units at the Meeting House rental apartment complex just feet from this. There's 37 rental units at 200 Hanhengang Street all within shouting distance. Recently in the past two years, two other buildings were approved on high street, one for a three-fifth-minute-homing home to go to a 31-unit condo building, one for a single-fifth-minute home to go to a 15-unit condo building, and this is the proposal for a three-fifth-minute home to go to a nine-unit rental building. The rental apartments are not needed in this neighborhood right now, dot block, Meeting House, and the 200 Hanhengang Street, they all have plenty of empty open rental apartments that are not currently being mentioned. They're looking for renters that we can't find them, so we don't need more rental units at this neighborhood. The other thing is the street that is proposed on this high street, that's the beginning to Meeting House Hill, that's the entrance to Meeting House Hill. Meeting House Hill has a strong and proud historic record of being an important neighborhood and hill in doorchester. We are like Jones Hill, we are like Savin Hill, we are like Hope Hill, we are a leafy residential neighborhood that wants to be as family-friendly as possible, and we feel like that the value of these hills adds value to the rest of doorchester, gives the rest of doorchester a nice place to live. That, with that said, at the top of our hill is the Madder Elementary School, where 430 four students are dropped off and picked up every single day twice a day, at the top, at the top of high street, 300 feet away from this development. The cars and the traffic and the pandemonium that happens here every single day between at 9 o'clock and at 4 o'clock is really not to be believed. I have video recordings of it and it's chaos every single day, drivers, people drive straight on the sidewalks, side of the street, people double parking and driving traffic jams, they cause horn blaring, that goes on for 15, 20 minutes until they're finally all clear. The other issue is that this property is right at the Gateway of Meeting House Hill and it sets the tone for what the rest of the hill is and the value is the rest of the field. If you saw the designs that they're representing, you can see that the back end of that apartment building is completely unitaried. Unitaried, unitaried, unitaried, unitaried. And you please, it looks like it came out of a home depot to just design supply store. And the other thing is that the place is wrapped up, the drop up, okay, the last thing is, we feel like the building of this apartment building for profit one landline, landline, more will decrease the value of all the other properties on the hill around it because the density of the traffic and the building, we strongly, the meeting House and the city's association strongly opposes this. Thank you, sir. Thank you very much. Yeah, how many raised stands you have? Two. Okay, please. Edward. Just please add new information and keep your statements brief. Okay, yes. Hi, can you hear me? Yes, ma'am. Hi there. The other thing, my property is 34,000. I don't know. In opposition of the 16th High Street Development, may house was a historically black and brown neighborhood and the incredible saturation density of the buildings is going to financially disrupt the current residents there. Already one of my neighbors who is a black woman has told me that her, her homeowners insurance has gone up to $2,000. Simply because of the fact that there is increased density in this area because insurance companies look at the increased risk of access, property damage, stuff, and vandalism. So the argument that this, if I provide more affordable housing and more housing in the neighborhood, this is also going to make this neighborhood no longer affordable, currently, for the black and brown families who probably live there. And I just, I wanted to make that point and we need to take care of folks who currently live there. My second and final point is that if you all have read the Embrace Boston ham report that they recently addressed for lease, it connects present day Boston to a history of harms perpetrated against black Boston spanning seven areas of injury, including housing. And one of the points that they make there is that the ghosts of red line in Boston need to be addressed by creating evenness across neighborhoods. Placing affordable housing in predominantly white areas is important, as is revitalizing black communities to attract a diverse population of residents. Now the latter revitalizing black communities to attract a diverse population that has already been done in Meaninghouse Health with the addition of 603 new upcarbon and condom units within a two-block radius of high street, many of which are unfilled, empty empty homes. Yet we are continuing to see a push for further developments in Meaninghouse Health versus the gentrified and wider neighborhoods of Jones and Salon Hill. This is not contributing to evenness across neighborhoods, this is taking advantage of one neighborhood, with the current residents and homeowners again majority black and brown, both suffer as the density impacts insurance rates, neighborhood culture, safety parking traffic, and their own value of their homes. Thank you. I'm going to show my sketch. Madam Chair, if I could just have one last thing to the record, briefly. So as far as the planning standpoint, this proposal, as you all may have read, the BPA recommendation is in line for their recommendation approval, according to their design plan of the urban of this neighborhood. So again, I want to thank you for your time. Thank you. Are there any other questions from the board? I have a question given that there are vacancy in the rental market in the neighborhood. Do you foresee this being an issue with your development? Not at this point in time. So you do see a market for the offerings that you are proposing? Correct. Okay. Thanks. No further question. Thank you. We have a motion. I think I just like to make a comment initially to the women or members that I get a lot of the frustration here with the development, and particularly looking at some of the historical buildings granted here and some really big leaps. I sort of failed to see how three to nine units is the same level of concern as some of the others. And it feels to me that there's more involvement needed from the planning department, the city to kind of address the global concerns here, and that that's kind of spilling out into a three to nine unit development. So I think that's just what I'm wrestling with. I just want to express that to the other board members. I don't see the issues with the variances per se or the code, but just with the overall issues with the added development in the agreement. Dave, I really appreciate that comment to us because hearing in regards to the requests, the lot size is very large, and the request doesn't seem in a progress, it seems really appropriate with the lot size, but just hearing your feedback that we're hearing more of the frustration with the neighborhood, and it's almost like O&S needs to work with the neighborhood and to advocate with the city to begin to address some of the issues that was concerned by Kate Davidson. Thank you, and I really appreciate Kate speaking up and providing us with that resource. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Wilson. Thank you, Kate. Any other comments from the board? I have a few questions. So one, how do you consider what level of affordability that unit will be at? And she has something that sort of keeps sticking out to me on this project is the protruding into the setbacks, and it's not that much, you know, you're right on that, but if some sense of case, why not just comply and kind of cut that down and maybe make the project a little bit more scalable and palatable to the neighbors? Great, no, two good questions. Yes, so the AMI, as these are rental units, will be approximately about 60 to 70% AMI as far as the rental, and as far as the setbacks under ICO 65-42 section 9 is long as that's not 75% more than that setback and the average is over which required that is conforming to that actual specific code. So again, as I stated, you know, during my original speech that I don't think that we should have been cited for those violations as they are conforming as the way we interpret the code. Well, I understand. I think it could have helped with the FIR as well, but okay, thank you. Were that the motion? I won't put forward a motion of approval to provisos that plans be submitted to the BPDA for design review and to that the applicant enters an agreement with the mayor's office of housing or a data restricted affordable unit, no higher than 70% AMI. Thank you, Ms. Ruele. Is there a second? First second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Berbaza. Yes. Ms. Ruele. Yes. Mr. Lengom. Yes. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Okay. Chair votes yes. The motion carries. Great. Thank you. Okay, with that, I think we have to take another break into one of our. I'll see you guys then.