 P.L. Subcommittee hearing for January 2020 is now in session. This hearing is being conducted in accordance with the applicable provisions of the open meeting law, including the provisions of an act extending certain COVID-19 measures adopted during the state of emergency that was signed by governor Baker on June 16, 2021. The new law allows the board to continue its practice of holding virtual hearings that adopted during the COVID-19 pandemic until April 1, 2022. This virtual hearing is being recorded via WebEx. In order to ensure that this hearing of the board is open to the public, members of the public may access this hearing through telephone and video conferencing. The information for connecting to this hearing is listed on today's hearing agenda, which is posted on the public notices page after city's website Boston.gov. Members of the public will enter the virtual hearings as attendees, which means you will not see yourself on the screen and you will be muted throughout unless administratively unmuted when asked to comment. As with our in-person meetings, comments and support will be followed by comments in opposition. The order of comments is as follows, elected officials, representatives of elected officials and members of the public. The number of people called upon to offer comment and the time for commenting will be limited by the chair, as time constraints require. For that reason, the board prefers to hear from members of public who are most impacted by the project. That is those individuals who live closest to the project. If you wish to comment on an appeal, please click the raise your hand icon in the application via the WebEx event platform. If you wish to comment on an appeal, please click the button on the right hand side of the screen. If you wish to comment on an appeal, click the raise your hand icon from there, find your name and on the lower right hand side you should see a hand raising icon. If you wish to comment on an appeal, click the raise your hand icon in the application and on the lower right hand side you should see a hand icon in the application. If you wish to comment on an appeal, click the raise your hand icon in the application and on the lower right hand side you should see a hand icon in the application. If you wish to comment on an appeal, click the raise your hand icon in the application and on the lower right hand side you should see a hand icon in the application. the first of time and to ensure that you have enough time to do so, please raise your hand as soon as Mr. fortune reads the address into the record. Do not raise your hand before the relevant address is called all the meeting hosts will not know to call on you at the appropriate time. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Do we need to know if there are any deferrals? Oh, I thought you were going to miss the Robinson to reply. Oh, I'm sorry. No, I think with the small team. I see everybody. Hi. Hi, Eric. I'm ready to go. I'm ready to go. I'm ready to go. I'm ready to go. I'm ready to go. I'm ready to go. And so I'm having issues with my panelist button function. So as Sam. Has been helping me just get people elevated to panelists just in case. People have questions about that. Sorry. Okay. We'll give a couple of. Are there any deferrals with or also the five apply cases. If you could just give me the address if you are deferring or withdrawing. This is to confirm, I think it has an existing single family. A hospital area will be added to the basement level and in addition will be added to the rare. A new roof deck will be constructed. An access by a steer and they hatch the violations on the call 62 section 30 point 120. A rare yet on a shell of shell a lot. Article 62 section 25 roof structure restriction. Article 62 section 8. The food area ratio is excessive. Article 62 section 8. The building has excessive feet. And Article 62 section 8 beside God is insufficient. Even add to the record please. I'm Tim Shan. I'm the architect for the project. This is a single family we've had ISD come out and confirm that. And the job is it's it's going to be a gut rehab of the three story Masonry building. We're going to add a route of 23 by 15 foot roof deck access by a hatch and new stair. I'm currently there's a basement now that's half occupiable in the back. It's in office back there now. We'd like to do a two story L addition at the back, which would be 8 by 17. And that's it. That's it. We'll be putting a fire sprinkler system and we're doing enough work where we need to do that. Did I notice that there was a deck that seemed to be abutting the real hotline from the plot line? Yeah, that's right there. Yeah, that's, let me see that maybe draw the wrong. Let me see what I have. Yeah, that's that plot plans incorrect. We'll have to fix that. The stairs actually if you look at my plans a one. The stairs were in the sideways. There's currently a small platform there. He may have drawn that because there's a common alley back there. So we'll go back to the back of the back of the deck stairs. Okay, and talk to us about the basement occupancy. The basement occupancy will be a family. If you look at my plans a one, the basement occupancy will be an office bedroom in the front. We've got two big windows there. So it'll meet the requirements, but they're going to use that for an office. It's a small room. And it'll just be overflow when they have family over, but it's going to be utilized as an office. And we have currently have it's good ceiling height now at seven foot nine and a half inches. We should stay close to that, you know, depending on flow finishes, but we'll have, we'll have a good seven nine when we're finished. And does it appear that there seems to be access direct access to the basement from the street. There is. Yeah, there's a door that comes directly off and corded street. But there is no intention of that becoming a second unit in the basement. Or that's that's always for trash and you know moving stuff in and out. It's not a great door. It's one of the low small doors you see. Okay. How are the plans, Mr Robinson? Plans are good. No question. Well, I had one question. I just wanted to make sure. So there's some other roof decks and you're holding the roof deck back from the street, which I think is great. It seems to sign with one down a little bit. I just want to confirm that there's no dimension on it, but it seems like it's pretty close to the. I just kind of line them up. Yeah, I know I want to measure it would be close to that. Okay. No, no question. It's pretty straightforward. Thank you. Does anybody here to speak either in support or an opposition of this proposal? Yes, good evening, Madam Chair, members of the board, Keon Stapleton with the mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. Our office has received no opposition or comments from new butter. So at this time, we'd like to defer to the board. Thank you. Any sense if there was a community meeting held. We did not have a community meeting because it's like single family home. Okay. I have no raised hands at the moment. Okay. May I have a motion, please? The BPD is recommending approval. So may I have a motion? I'll make a motion to approve. Thank you. Second that motion. I too have in support. So you're all said good luck. Thank you so much, everybody. Following the next case, calling the away 1243292 4-Mount Vernon Street. This is an addition of 168 square feet on the third floor over an existing two-story. An existing third-story will be extended to add another bedroom to the house. The violation is Article 62, Section 19. This is the Naval Hood Design Overlay District. Article 62, Section 25, Blue Structure Restrictions. Article 62, Section 8, the Blue Day Ratio Excessive. And Article 62, Section 8, the Ray Yacht is insufficient. They may not address for the record, please. Again, it's Tim Shan. I'm the architect for the project. This project is a two-family structure. Now we were before the board three or four years ago with the different, the prior owners to add a dormer and do some other things roof deck. This is to add one more bedroom. Growing family lives here in this upper unit and they need that fourth bedroom. The bedroom would be 139 by 123. Currently, there's a roof deck, you know, where those bedrooms don't have to be on top of the second floor. That's it. It's pretty straightforward. You know, we're asking for 168 square feet. You know, we already are over on the FAR. So, you know, we have a few violations, but that's what we're looking for. And so it's the goal is just to add the bedroom that roof deck is existing. Yes, the roof deck's already there. We'll obviously get rid of that. Okay. How are the plans, Mr. Robinson? Plans are good as well. No questions. Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition of this proposal? Yes. Good evening, Madam Chair, members of the board. I'm stable. Tim from the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. Again, our office received no opposition or comments from the abutters. We did not have community meeting for this project, but at this time would like to defer to the board. Thank you. Madam Chair, I have no raised hands at the moment. Okay. May I have a motion, please? I will also follow the BPA recommendation and make a motion to approve. I'll second that motion. I too am in support. You're all set. Good luck. Thank you, everyone. Happy New Year. Thank you. I'm going to ask for the next. Next case calling B.O.A. 126472886 Washington Street. This is a piece of art from a single family to a two family. Instructed red, dolma, material partition wall framing. Roof repair. The violation of the article 62 section 25. Roof structure restrictions, article 62 section 8. The building is excessive in stories. Article 62 section 8. The building has excessive in feet. An article 62 section 8. The front yard is sufficient. And then adjust for the record. So the apple is anybody here representing 86 Washington street in ward two. They did check in. Let me. I just hit the unmute. Sorry. I was a little technical difficulties. No, but you name an address on the record and tell us what's being proposed. Nester Leamus. Addresses 235. Marginal street Chelsea mass. And what we're proposing is to dormer the front. Roof in line with the streetscape and fully dormer the back with the deck and a headhouse. And then we're proposing to dormer the back with the deck and a headhouse. The current. The current. Reach. Top of rage is approximately 42. And we're proposing an additional 5.6 for the headhouse for a total of 47. We comply with the FAR going from 28. 45 square feet to 29. 53 square feet. This will be an order occupant. And I am the honor representing myself. Okay. I think you're probably represented that this was a front dormer. Is it a because it's advertised as a rear dormer? Or so is it both? Is it essentially a front and an area dormer? Yes, ma'am. Yes, ma'am chairman is essentially a both a front and a rear. A dormer. Okay. And. So you're going to change the occupancy. Tell us how that change of occupancy is going to occur. It will have separate utilities for all of the two units electrical gas and plumbing with the comment for the back entry. And it's really an in law for my mother is going to live downstairs. And it has this two forms of egress for each of the units from the rear and the front. Okay. So, you know, we are very careful about basement units because. So talk to us about the floor to ceiling height in that unit and unit one. Tell us about the floor to sell height and tell us about egress. The floor to ceiling height in that unit was in existing condition was approximately I forget the numbers is slightly over eight feet. The forms of this also has a sub basement to that so two forms of egress is out through the back door and then dial through the sub basement through the patch on the basement. And also if needed, you can go upstairs through my unit. Okay. So if these are supposed to be two separate units, they need separate means of two means of egress. And so, because just understand that, you know, the relief we grant is not because it's family, but we have granted for expecting that it might not be so tell us about the floor to sell height. The floor to sell height would be an additional eight inches from the top of the cell forward it approximately eight from the bottom of the cell. Okay. And then tell us about the dorm that you're proposing to construct how many square feet in total. The the dormer in the front would add an additional four. There is one dormer now that's approximately four feet and this would add approximately another six feet the total dormer space additional with windows in the middle in the front. Okay. And in the rear, it would be approximately 24 feet wide by approximately 10 feet with the setback having on the deck in the rear. And so and then what's the proposed height and because it looks like you're essentially adding a separate story almost. If you go to the next slide a little further down. The other direction. Before the or yes before sorry you'll see the the top of rage which is the existing condition is at 42 maybe one further up. And then with the head house we're proposing an additional 5.6 for the completion of the head house. So tell us about this head house. The head house will start a prop because it's such a high ceiling because the current roof is is dormant and we're going to give it a 8.5 ceiling height and then the roof. So we're going to start the roof. So we're going to start the roof. Okay. Okay. Got it. Mr Robinson, I'm going to let you go into the details about that basement. Please. Yeah, I think that I mean I don't necessarily have any issue with the the dormer or the extension. I think that's probably fair and fine. I mean I guess I do have a slight issue with the basement unit only from the standpoint of. It is a full walk out so that's good. But the bedroom windows. Well, they're well they're shown fixed on your plans which obviously I guess they. It shouldn't be maybe they should be but I think we need egress capacity for those so that's an issue but. I guess I'm just wondering you know we do kind of have a little bit of an issue with below grade. Bedrooms although it is a full walk out I was trying to figure out if maybe there's a way to reconfigure this a little bit to make the bedrooms work a little bit better with the gray dropping off but. I guess that's not really my job but I think you know. It's one of those sort of standard conditions it's it's it's better than most just because it has the full walk out in the rear. And we'll be adding a sprinkler system to the entire building. Which we add or the life safety protection to the space. Okay. And then I look at the. The BPD a recommendations because you're not proposing a roof deck are you. Yes, yes in the rear there would be a roof. I see okay so. It's sort of like a terrace cut into the roof it's not. It's not a good idea to start it was okay so because the BPD is recommending a head house. A hatch instead of a head house. Yeah I think they. Yeah I don't think they're seeing that quite correctly I saw that on there too. Yes I was having a hard time reading the plans. It's sort of put into the roof and it's an outdoor space but in the roof plane. So what I'm reading so. Okay got it. Yeah. Is anybody here to speak either in support or an opposition of this proposal. Yes good evening Madam Chair members of the board. Keaton Sapleton from mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. Our office hosted and a butter's meeting on November 22nd 2021. Any concerns by a butter is word direct or addressed in support was shown at the meeting. But at this time we'd like to defer to the board. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair I have no raised hands at the moment. Okay may I have a motion please. I'll make a motion to approve with BPD design review and I think. I guess if we can look at the layout and configuration just make sure that you dress windows and the full walk out are working. So I think that'll be a design review with BPN. I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. Mr. Robinson I would say I would second it. And did you also want to put a proviso with no building code relief. Yes sorry. Yeah. It's a good point. Okay. With a proviso building code relief. Thank you. I'll second. I have a motion. I too am in support. So you're all set with that proviso. Okay. Thank you very much. Have a good evening everyone. You're welcome. Thank you everyone. symbolize witnesses please. This is one, one for our 34t celebrated throughout.oughs back of the day. Is a Highschool athlete. is the applicant George George's and the architect Steve Concilla. This is a project that's currently underway on changing from a three family to a one family. The applicant filed a amendment to add the roof deck to this project. The roof deck is 10 by 12 feet. There is a roof hatch access. It is not seen from the public way. And we've had the butter's meeting and we've also met. I just want to confirm so this is hatch access. It is hatch access. Correct. Okay thank you. How are the plans Mr. Robinson? Plans are good no no questions it looks pretty straightforward and it's pulled back from the address so I don't see an issue with this. Okay is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition at this proposal? Yes good evening Madam Chair and members of the board. Keel and Stapleton from the Mayor's Office of the New Bend Services. Our office hosted in the butter's meeting on November 17th 2021 note about her's attended the meeting but I did receive one letter of support and one letter of opposition. The opposition was due to noise so at this time I'd like to look different to the board. Thank you. Madam Chair Secretary we have three letters of support, one letter of opposition but the opposition was the deck. Okay thank you. Madam Chair I do have one raised hand. Alice I sent a request to unmute you. Once you unmute can you state your name and I just for the record please. It's Kraft and Steven Spanetto at 42 Sullivan Street. Okay go ahead. We really are not comfortable with any more decks in the neighborhood. They're already are way too many. That house is very high and we have a very small historic house. We think these decks are frankly dangerous because people put their barbecues, their grills on them even though they know they're not supposed to. There's one directly across the street where the zoning board said to the owner you know you do understand that there are no no grills supposed to be on this deck and literally the next day those people had an enormous grill on top of of their house on their deck. Have you called the fire department or ISD about that violation? Yes. It hasn't changed the thing. Hasn't changed the thing. People still do it. We've had fires in this neighborhood most notably on high street because of grills that have been on decks and we've we've lost several houses that had to be rebuilt even once that had sprinkler systems. So we're really not comfortable with having decks. This house has a perfectly good outdoor area. They can they have plenty of outdoor space. There's no reason why there should be a deck on this house. Thank you. Tom can you please have somebody go out for ISD when the weather's appropriate and and check on that that fire the fire issue on the abutting house? We can have an inspector look at the house. Yes please. It might be worth doing a sweep in the community. Anybody else to speak either in support or in opposition? No additional raised hands on my side Madam Chair. Thank you. May I have a motion? Yeah just one question. So is this a so direct access from only the upper unit? Is this a private riftick? There's a single family house. This was a three legal three family. I changed it to a single family so it's only then we want to egress from there. Yes. Okay. Got it. I think some of the concerns that we brought up our policy. No we got thank you. May I have a motion Mr. Robinson? I think I'm wishing to approve. Second I motion. I too am in support so you're all set with with the approval. And please remember no no fire hasn't up there. I will let the buyer know. Thank you. Next case calling VOA 1 2 4 0 7 4 2 60 Temples Street. This is adding a roof deck the violations article 18 section one. Front yard is insufficient article 19 section one. Side yard is insufficient and article 20 section one. The rear yard is insufficient. Name and address for the record please. David Govonlo 60 Temples Street Boston. The owner and this is my primary residence. My architect is also on the call his name is Eric Zacherson. And is this downtown Boston? Yes, you can know. Okay. So please tell us Eric please put your name and address on the record. Mr. Zacherson and tell us what's being proposed. I think it is there. Exactly. Son one love those street in Charlestown. The proposal is to add a roof deck. There is some historic record that there was one there a while ago but hasn't been for a while. There is a head existing head house now would provide the access to to this new head to this new roof deck. Mr. Govonlo has worked with the neighborhood association built a mock up and and shown it to Beacon Hill historical and gotten their recommend their their yeah their approval. And what is the occupancy? It's a single family home. It's a single family. Okay. Excellent. How are the plans Mr. Robinson? Plans are good. No question. They're definitely using an existing head house and I think it's pretty pretty straightforward in terms of what they're proposing. Okay. Is anybody here to speak and support our in opposition of this proposal? Yes. Good evening Madam Chair. Members of the board, Maul Griffin of the mayor's office and neighborhood services. Our office would like to defer to the board's judgment at this time. We held in the butters meeting on October 18 where the applicant addressed questions, comments and concerns from neighbors and they also met with the Beacon Health Civic Association and received their vote of non opposition regarding this application. So yeah, I'd like to defer to the board. Thank you. Hi, Madam Chair. Members of the board and I can let on some Councillor Fling's office, the Councillor would like to go recording support with the last of the team continue working in good faith compromise with neighbors and on all lights shining on the deck when not in use and ratings that the BHCA finds consistent with the character of the neighborhood. Thank you. And Madam Chair, I have no raised hands. Out of Chair Secretary here, I do have one letter of support but I don't know if you saw the BPDA's recommendation. It was for deferral. Yes, but it seems like we have the complete set of plans, right? Okay. Okay. Yes, so let's go ahead. What's your level of comfort, Mr. Robinson? I'm fine. I think it's fine. I think it's consistent. I don't think there's an issue. I'll make a motion to support. Okay. I'll second that motion. I approve. I guess. No, it's supported. Thank you. I too am in support to your all set. Good luck. Thank you. I'm calling the police calling the OA 125 98 49 61 to 63 Berkeley Street. Does the change of oxygen include microblading body out of establishment as a service to the here salon. The violations article 64 Section 8 of body out of establishment while microblading is a bit name and address for the record please. Yes, my name is Samantha Cain and I own this plan is on Berkeley Street. So tell us how many square feet is this proposal and how many spaces or seats will you have? So I can repeat that. Yes, how many square feet is this space and how many seats are you know areas for attention? So we have upstairs square footage is 900. We need 45 square feet for the room to allow microblading which we have and are looking to build. The issue is the occupancy. We need to add it to our occupancy because apparently it's forbidden in this area of the city. So tell us about your business. So you are a hair salon. Is this a ground floor hair salon? Yes, so this is a street level hair salon. We've been here for three years. Currently we have a makeup artist and brows specialist. This is Lexi and she's currently in training to do microblading which is oftentimes a salon service or a spa service but the city basically dictates that as under body art which is considered tattooing. We're not looking to open it's not too shop or add actual tattooing of the body. It's strictly for cosmetic and salon service reasons. So then you're just adding 45 square feet to the current business. Correct. Okay. Do you have signage and what is your signage looking like? The signage was already approved. Nothing is going to change about the signage. Nothing is going to change about the business and how we represent ourselves. We just need the addition of occupancy for body art and approval of this space in order to offer this service. Okay. How are the plans, Mr. Robinson? The plans are fine. No real question except for I guess which I know is a challenge. So this is on the lower level. I guess how do you plan to address any accessibility or any because there's no, to me there's no elevator or no way to get down there. I mean is that a way to manage that in your service? No bill. Yeah for sure. So I mean we are closed Sunday, Monday and Tuesday. So if there happens to be any accessibility issues with handicap people that would be a private appointment that they would have in the upstairs space which is already outfitted perfectly for you know this hand-watching saying this plenty of space has all the requirement. So if that were to be an issue we would be able to accommodate. Okay, no problem. No questions other than that. Thank you. Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition at this proposal? I guess I'm good evening Madam Chair and members of the board. Kim Kusuli from Mayors Office of Neighborhood Services. The applicant had in a butters meeting held by our office on November 16th where no opposition or comments were given by any of butters. I have received verbal support from the butters at this time it likes to defer to the board. Thank you. Hi, Marama. I'm the chair members of the board. I'm a Caledon from Councilor Slingh's office. The Chancellor would like to go on recurring support. We heard no concerns or issues from the listening with association. Thank you. Madam Chair I have no raised hands at the moment. Madam Chair, the secretary we do have one letter of opposition. And is what's the opposition based on? They just are opposed to the project. They just suppose. Okay. May I have a motion please? I'll make a motion to approve. I'll second that motion. And I too am in support so you're all set. Good luck. Thank you so much. I appreciate your time. Following an X case calling the OA124. Following case B OA124 423756 Linwood Street. This is proposed curb cut for one vehicle, mastery packed, violations, article 5629, usable open spaces and sufficient and article 5643, mastery packed. Amen. Just to the record please. George are you there? Good evening Chairman of the board. This is my phone at Feng Pouzi or studio of architecture 204 Adam Street. George has the mass 02122. So tell us what you're what's being proposed. I'm just like a one up street parking. You know my. The single family. Yeah you know that that street is according to well I'll tell you that street is an uphill street and it's a tough corner and also the BPDA is recommending denial because it looks like it's front yard parking. Can you just talk that through a little bit? Well the if you look at the site plan the configuration of the house is a little bit unique because the angles so if it was a rectangular that we can't have a park in the right hand side without any problem but as the curve right now and if you look at the site plan you see Linwood Street. There is the sign is between Linwood and Street that say no parking from that point to the corner. So the parking the proposed parking of street parking here doesn't take away any off street not on street parking at all. It might not but isn't it a blind corner with those with the curb and everything like that with the curb in the street. Adam Chair. Madam Chair, it's a Demiko has spoken this. Would you like me to put his comments in the further ahead please. Okay we're got in 56 Linwood Street. It is front yard parking. curb cut is located at a shop turn on the corner and there is parking on the side of the street. Yes. Okay thank you. How are the plans Mr Robinson? I mean the plans show exactly what the proponent is right. It looks like they are already using it in this form because there's a makeshift curb you know jumper with some wood and then the driveway is already appears to be there so I guess they're just trying to legalize this but I agree with Mr. Demiko I just think this is a very hard spot to have a car. I think this is a massive accident waiting to happen. Is anybody here to speak and support our in opposition of this proposal? How are you Madam Chair? This is Jason from the mayor's office in neighborhood services. What for who that was? How are you? I'm good. So in a butters meeting was held on October 18th in which all of the neighbors who were in attendance of the butters meeting were all a butters and they all did write letters of support. The board should have that as well if not I can make that available but all the questions and concerns of the neighbors were answered by Mr. Rainer and there was only support raised for the project. I haven't received any opposition. Okay thank you. No problem. And Madam Chair I have no raised hands. Okay so we have an issue here that where the neighborhoods in support but on technical grounds this looks like this would be a very hard thing to support in the long run and the BPD is also in opposition. So may I have a motion please? I just I think this is just too hard of an intersection especially with the yard is overgrown as it appears. I just I think this is we can't allow this to proceed. I'm going to have to make a motion to deny. And out of the second that motion. I too am in support and I'm sorry Mr. Phong and the a butter and the applicant but it just really doesn't work so the motion is for denial. Thank you. Following the next case calling BOA 125 9685 12 Womback screen. This is the confirmed offer as a one family and extend living space to the basement and we figure the roof line to add living space on the third floor. The violation is article 5. I'm sorry and rebuild the rear deck. The violations article 50 section 29 excessive FAR. Article 50 section 29 insufficient area got setback. Article 50 section 29 the number of allowed habitable stories as a clinic seated. And Article 50 section 29 insufficient sidejad setback. David address for the record please. Yes, Vernon Woodworth the architect and I reside at Nine Elizabeth Street in Madapam. This is a Victorian home purchased by a blended family with several children needing accommodation. The intent is to fit out the basement for their own personal use and renovate it with the second means of the address. The existing deck is unsafe when it needs to be replaced and in the attic where we're intending to make a master suite in order to mitigate some low headroom we're adding some dormer area. Okay, so is this in fact a so you're maintaining it as a single family? Yes. Okay. It okay, let's just see and tell us about the extension of living space into the basement. The intent is that they have a one of the children is is an adult male who would like to live there. We went back and forth on whether or not to create an additional dwelling unit and ultimately the intent is to make an extension of the single family. So tell us about the floor to ceiling height, the floor to cell height so we can understand how habitable it is. Yes. Seven feet, eight inches with a few projections that do not go below seven feet and we will be creating a two actually emergency escape and rescue window openings with the cell heights less than 44 inches. And are they into the side or rear yard? Is there enough space in the side yards for somebody to get out comfortably should the windows be located in the side yard? Yes, there is Madam Chair. The driveway goes down one side and there's a significant yard area on the other. So what is this? I think Zillow is telling me if it's Zillow that there are already six bedrooms in there so this would be seven bedrooms? Not sure how they came to that amount. One, two, there's only three on the second floor and they may have counted two on the in the attic. We're actually reducing that. It's only going to be one now with the master suite. So I don't actually think we are increasing the number. Okay. Okay. Let's see any questions, Mr. Robinson? No, I mean I think unfortunately it's the same issue we're dealing with. I mean in terms of the bedroom and the grade, I mean I think the fact that I guess a single family maybe puts a little bit different spin on it but it's just a similar issue. And Mr. Woodward, there was no other way at all of accommodating that bedroom on the first floor or elsewhere in the building. I should add that we are taking an existing door and excavating to create a full height entrance and exit for that basement apartment. So there will be direct egress to grade but we didn't see another way to carve this up. Where is that show? Because that doesn't seem to be shown on the drawings. We'll need the rear elevation. Might just be a slip of the tongue, Mr. Woodward, but that is not a separate unit and the basement. It's not a separate apartment. No. No kitchen. I'm sorry to interrupt. This elevation shows the partial door. The excavation would bring it to a full. There's actually an interior set of steps currently but you do have to duck your head to get in there and we're going to make that full height with a. Pange to the exterior elevation. And Mr. Robinson, can I confirm that there are no there is no kitchen in the basement? I don't see anything shown. There shows a workout room in a living room. It does not show any additional. I just associated with that. You. Any other questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition of this proposal? Hello, Madam Chair and members of the board. Jason Gantt with the Mayor's Office and Neighborhood Services. The applicant had an a butters meeting held on November 17th in which they answered all questions that were raised at that meeting. They had an additional meeting with the Garrison Charter Neighborhood Association at their monthly meeting in which they did get the support of the Garrison Charter Housing Committee. And the support letter should have been sent into the board and I can make that available as well. We are going to be deferring to the board's decision for this proposal. Thank you. Madam Chair, I have no raised hands at the moment. Okay. Let's just see. Okay. Okay. So this is in a historic district according to the BPDA. Okay. And so no building code relief to be granted. So may I have a motion, please? Yeah. Okay. I'll make a motion to approve with a BPD design review looking at the dormer and sort of as they've noted as well as I think if we can look at ensuring that we the windows are as large as they can be to provide the natural light and egress for that bedroom. And I think no building code relief is a good one. So we're talking about basement windows. I just want to make sure that our instruction to the BPDA as okay. Basically, I'll second that. And no building code relief. Okay. I too. And the building code relief. I too am in support. So the motion carries. Good luck. Thank you very much. Following your next case, following the OA126-831-621 Saga, this is a tandem style driveway installed on the side of the house located at 21-23 Saga, this driveway is on 23 Saga, the valuation is identical. 65 section 9, the side gathers insufficient. Maybe not just for the record plate. Morning, Madam Chair. Good evening, Madam Chair, members of the board. Attorney John Marry on behalf of the family that owns the residents, the subodis family. Madam Chair and members of the board, this is a proposal to install as just stated into the record, a tandem style driveway when the family bought this address, it was already subdivided into two lots. In trying to find a way to park off the street, the family now has grown. They have two young kids. This was where he worked with the engineering team to try to locate a place to place the driveway. Unfortunately, looking at the plans, there's only seven feet to the right of his existing house and five feet to the left. So where this is being proposed, really is what makes the most sense. A lot of people during the butter's meeting at the community meeting said that some of the green space that is there, they would like it to ideally stay in place. And this where this is actually being placed is in order to try to ensure that that does in fact stay. Is this proposal or this address before this board in the past? Not that I'm aware of, Madam Chair. I certainly have never represented this owner on this property. Okay. And there is some reference to a tree. Yes. So during the community meetings, there was this discussion that there's a tree that's located right in the center of 21 Sagamore Street. Several of the butter said that if possible, they would like that tree to remain. It's been there for a number of years. So where this driveway is being placed will ensure that that stays where it is. And Mr. Domingo has spoken this. Would you like me to put his comments in please? Yes, please. Okay. Regarding 21, 23 Sagamore Street, parking area cannot accommodate two spaces. It is front yard park. That's Mr. Domingo at BTT. Okay. And can you tell me, Councillor, did you say this is a one family? It is a single family that's located on the 23 Sagamore lot. So if you're looking at the plans, Madam Chair, it's the home that's directly to the right of where the driveways proposed. And to address the comment from Mr. Domingo, we understand that the width of this driveway will not be illegal parking for two cars, but the family does. It's just a single family house. It's just the owner and his wife that will be parking tandem style in the driveway. Have they thought about combining the lots at some point? I did not have that discussion with them throughout this process. Okay. Okay. How about the plans, Mr. Robinson? The plans are good. I live at the end of the street, so I'm looking at it right now. I know exactly where this is. I've been here for 21 years. I know this property very well. I understand the comments on the green space, but I think that this is, to me, it seems like a fair ask. I think it would be great if we could use permittable pavers in there and sort of manage the sort of aesthetics of this, but I think this is an adequate approach. And I guess the question on Mr. Domingo, I mean, if we go in a little deeper, is that going to take another front yard? We can take care of that if there, if in concept, the plan makes sense. Okay. Yeah. Thank you. Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition to this proposal? Yes. Good evening, Madam Chair. Members of the board, George Swin with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. Our office held in the butters meeting on December 1st, 2021. A butters have concerns regarding the green space and maintenance of the tree was the applicant promise to maintain. The community was in agreement in the Columbia 7 Hill Civic Association's Planning Committee voted unanimously to support the project. At this time, our office would like to defer to the judgment of the board. Thank you. Madam Chair, I have no raised hands. Okay. So, so let's, I'm just jumping ahead. So let's get a motion out there, Mr. Robinson. I'll make a motion to approve. And I guess if needed to extend the driveway, deeper. So can we do it with design review with the specific. Yep. With design review. Longer driveway and you said, Pomeable. Favours. Okay. Okay. And that's what that is. Well, I too am in support. So you're all set. Good luck. Thank you, Madam Chair. Members of the board. Thank you. I'm calling an ex-cage calling the way 1224556 to 19 to 221 Fem on Avenue. This is a replaced wooden fence, a place where you're decking the railing, a place stairs decking the railings of the second floor, a violation of Article 69, Section 9, the rail yard is insufficient. I'm in address for the record. Please. Good evening, Madam Chair. Members of the board. My name is Eileen Rosa, the architectural designer from Rosa Design and Construction. Seventy-warrens, streets, it's sweet seven rocks, very messages. It's Boston messages. It's representing the owner Carlos areas. And this particular case for the approval of this pre-existing rear deck. Looking at the plans, an as-build set of drawings of a 10 by 15 deck built on two by 12 joys at 16 on center. So, let me just, Miss Rosa, look, can you tell me please? So this is 10 by 15. It's a two family dwelling. Can you tell me what the rear yard is from the edge of the deck to the property line? Yes, if we scroll down to the plop plan, it's the last page. And I will provide a reference here. So you can see the, yeah, right there if you can scroll up a little bit. Yeah, looking at the rear, the closest part of the existing dwelling is 17.7. We don't have a specific dimension here, but I took a quick measurement, taking for reference the 17.7. And the point on the staircase, it's about 70, 23 feet, one inch. And to the deck is 36 inch, 36 feet, one inch. And the regulation there costs for 40 feet. Okay. And so these, so are you proposing just one deck or two decks? It's a, it's a last built. What we're presenting, the deck is already built. And it's just that rear deck, the one shown in the plop plan. I'm assuming that when you're referring to replacing the fence, it's going to be a six foot fence. All right. Okay. Okay. How are the plans, Mr. Robinson? Plans are, plans are good. No questions for me. Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition of this proposal? Good evening, Madam Chair. Members of the board, this is Danielle Fonseca with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. The applicant Ms. Carla notified the abutters and a community meeting was hosted by our office and was conducted on September 30. During this meeting, no butters were present at the time, or excuse me, no butters that were present at the time of the meeting were in opposition of this proposal. Nor has our office received any letters of opposition or support for this proposal. At this time, we just like to defer judgment to the board. No further. Thank you. Thank you. And I'm sure you have no raised hands. May, may I have a motion, please? I will make a motion to approve. I'll second that motion. I too am in support. So you're all second luck. Thank you. Following the next case, calling the OA 1 2 4 0 5 0 3 47 Fonse Road. This is adding donors to an existing second floor and adding full bathroom renovate the first floor bathroom in Kitchen. Violations Article 60 Section 41. Really, you had to search cell lots. Name and address for the record please. Nice to see you and full full screen. Mr. Fortune. What's on that? Is the applicant here for? Can you please put your name and address on the record? Valery and Al Copeland. 47 Fonse Road. Okay. So is this a one or two family dwelling? This is one. Okay. So tell us what you're proposing to do. Hi, I'm sorry. This is Glenn. I was trying to get in. I'm the architect. Hello. Oh, yes. What's your name and address on the record? It's Glenn Knowles. I live at nine. Manad nox street. Doorchester mass. So 2125. Okay. Sorry about the video hiccup there. So you just very, very briefly met the owners. But the proposal is for three small gable dormers on the front of the house and one shed dormer along the rear. That's a very small house. There's it's a small oddly shaped lot. There's absolutely nowhere to enlarge the house from the footprint. So we'd like to increase the second floor living area. Okay. How are the plans, Mr. Robinson? Plans are good. No questions from me. Looks pretty straightforward. Okay. Is anybody here to speak and support our in opposition of this proposal? Yes. I will met them. Chair members of the board. Dante, people who share from the Marys of the neighborhood services. At this time, the Marys of the like to defer to the board for your judgment. The applicant came before the West Selden and vicinity neighborhood associations on October 25th and November 22nd where there was a questions concerns were raised, of no worries, but the group. There was support shown and there was also in a butters meeting held November 10th run by the Marys office on November 10th, 2021. The Marys office says we haven't received any letters of opposition. We have received letters of support that should be, that should have been sent to the board. If not, I can again make those available. It's not a problem. Again, we would like to defer to the board for your judgment at this time. Thank you so much. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Ambassador? Madam Chair, I have no raised hands. Thank you. May I have a motion, please? Okay. Sorry. I have three letters. I'm sorry about that, Mr. Roberts. No, all good. I want to hear that. That's good news. I make a motion to approve. I know the BPA said review provides, I think it's pretty straightforward and it's consistent with sort of other aspects. I think we can just approve this. I second that motion. I too am in support. So you're all second. Good luck. Thank you very much. Thank you. Calling the next case, calling the OA 125 818930 Prescott Street. This is interior renovations, new windows, new doors and new decks. Violations, article 9, section 1, reconstruction, extension of an online conforming building, an article 69, section 9, insufficient ray, amen, address for the record. Hi there. This is Kelly and John Avila, 30 Prescott Street. We are here looking to do a few renovations in our two family owner occupied home. The first is we're looking to renovate our third floor to be used as three bedrooms and eventually a bathroom for our family of four. Our unit currently only has one bedroom and we've really outgrown it. The second project is we're looking to make a deck off the side backyard of our home. The deck is to be used for recreational purposes for our family. It's just on the second floor and in addition it will give us a second back egress because the 1910 house has a pretty steep back stairwell. So we'll be using that back deck as our second egress. So let me just understand so the deck you're proposing is a second floor deck. It's not a ground floor deck. Yes, Madam Chair. Okay and what's the distance from the edge? Let's just see insufficient rear yard. So what's the distance from the furthest edge of the deck to the rear property line? I don't have that information, Madam Chair. Okay. What's more than 20 feet? I think it's shown on the man-bass area. I think it's 32 feet, six inches and then it looks like it's not quite parallel and it's almost 40 at the feet at the left hand side. Okay so there must be a 40 foot rear yard and I think it's a 40 foot rear yard and it's encroaching a little bit into that. Okay. Okay. Is how are the plans? The plans are fine. No questions. It's again pretty straightforward. Is anybody here to speak either and support on an opposition of this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the board, this is Danielle Fonseca with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. The applicants completed the community process and they notified of butters and a community meeting was held by our office which was on November 16th. No butters were in attendance at this meeting. Our office has received no letters of support or opposition for this proposal and at this time we'd like to defer to the board for judgment. Thank you. Madam Chair, I have no raised hands. Okay, May, let's just see what is the BPDA proposing. They want us to see it. Okay, may I have a motion please? I'll make a motion to approve and I think since it's a second floor deck it's a little odd. I think it'd be good just to have them take a look. So I'll do approval with BPDA design review on that. I'll second that vote. Okay, I too am in support. So you guys are all set good luck. Yes, but that one provides the design review. Thank you. Thank you. Following your next case, calling B O A 1 2 3 8 3 9 1 83 Chidic Road. This is a constructed 13 by 16 ground level deck at the rear of the existing two family. Violations out of the 9th section 1 extension of an armed conforming use. They have an address for the record please. You got to unmute yourself sir. I'm still muted. The symbiocity. Could you help him please? A heart? Yeah. What do you see? Greg yeah, you're unmuted now. Can you hear me? Can you hear us? Help. You just muted yourself. You want to try it again? Right, you are unmuted, but we cannot hear you. He's sending me in here now. Yeah, yeah, we can hear you now. I don't know what happened. All right, Gregory Diaz 53 Fondale Road representing the owner. Good evening, Madam Chair and the board. Yes, please tell us what is being proposed. So the homeowner will like to add a deck to his property. He lives on the property. He lives on the first floor. And he will like to add a deck to the rear of the property that exit the back door out of his kitchen just to have an additional, you know, sitting area in the back. Okay, how are the plans, Mr. Robinson? Plans are good. No questions. Very straightforward. So this is a two family dwelling. I'm assuming that the second unit is on the second and third floor. Correct. Okay. Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition of this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the board, Daniel Fonseca, Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. The applicants completed the community process and they notified a butters and a community meeting was held by our office on October 12th for this. No butters were in attendance at this meeting. We have received no letters of support or opposition for this proposal. At this time, we'd like to defer to the board for judgment and we have nothing further. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, I have no raised hands. Okay. May I have a motion? I'll make a motion to approve. I'll second that motion. I turn in support. So you're all said. Good luck. Thank you. Happy new year. Same to you. Following the next case, calling the OA 126 4972 88, Lealand Road. This is to install an accessible vertical lift with roofed six by six attached to the side of the house. Violated Article 56 section. Side God is insufficient. May I address further reckon please? Okay, first of all, good evening everybody. My name is Jim Ryan. I live at 88 Lealand Road with my wife. And we would like to have the accessibility to get into the house. Unfortunately, we're getting older. So that would really help us. I'm right behind you. So tell us, tell us where this lift is proposed. It will be up on the side of the house. Mostly towards the back. And okay. My neighbor sent the. He didn't have a problem with anything. Okay, so will you be putting a door in there or is there an existing door already? There'll be a door going in the basement. So we can. We need to wheelchair to get them out to the elevator. Okay. Okay, in all go on. Okay, how are the plans, Mr Robinson? The plans are good. Very straightforward and no issue. It's I mean, I understand where he's trying to get to. So I think it makes some sense where it is set back in the edge. No questions. Got it. Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition of this proposal? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor Newman mayors off the neighborhood services. At this time mayors off like to defer to the board's judgment. Some background information. 88 Leland went for the West Rocksbury neighborhood council on December 14th and received support votes of eight to nothing. No concerns were raised from neighbors either to our office. Thank you. We do have one letter of support. Madam Chair, thank you. I have no raised hands, Madam Chair. Thank you. Do you have a motion, please? I'll make a motion to approve. I'll second that motion. I too am in support. Good luck. Thank you. Thank you. Following the next case, calling B.O.A.122-4806-73-Dobarx Street. This is to construct a single story edition in renovating. The violations article 67 section 9 and renegade is insufficient. They have an address for the record plans. Good evening. My name is Ivan Hernandez, 111 Baker Street, West Rocksbury. As you stated, the proposal is to construct a single story edition on the back of the house. Right now there's an existing bump out at the back of the house with an existing deck. The proposal is to remove that deck and increase or extend the back of the house to meet the back of the existing single story edition. So it would be a single story structure that we would be constructing. The current existing rear setback is 20.8 feet. The proposed setback is 28.3 feet and the required is 40 feet. We're adding 86 square feet of living area, but we make the requirements for the FAR. So you have 86 square feet and will you be replacing that deck? Right. We're not replacing it. We're simply removing the deck and we're creating a side entrance into the house. It would enter into a madoum. The proposed edition expansion is to increase the size of the kitchen, which is currently very small and not functional. So I live up the street. So is this the house that's already under being renovated? Yes. There's some interior work being done on the house. Originally the application had gone in to the building department. And the contract that was notified through email, but he had assumed that the notification was approval of the project and started to some interior work. When he went to... I got it. I've been checking out the construction and progress, not knowing that you were coming before us, but that's good to know. How are the plans, Mr. Robinson? Plans are good. No questions from me. Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition of this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor Newman with the Mayor's Office of the Neighborhood Services. This time, Mayor's Office would like to defer to the judgment of the board, background information on the community process. Butters were flyers and there wasn't a butters meeting help. We're one of the attendees slash direct aboutters indicated their full support for the project. Thank you. Madam Chair, I have no raised hands. A moment. May I have a motion, please? I will make a motion to... I think it can just be approved. Others, it's pretty straightforward. Yeah, second motion. I too am in support, so you're all set. Good luck. Thank you very much. Thank you. Following the next case, calling VOA 125 3082 21 Walworth Street. This is extension of living space at the rear of the single-family dwelling in front porch. The violations, article 67, section 28. This is design review, article 67, section 9. The Floyd A ratio is excessive. Article 67, section 9, the usual open space is insufficient. Article 67, section 9, the front yard is insufficient. Article 67, section 9, the side yard is insufficient. And Article 67, section 9, the rear yard is insufficient. May I have an address for the record, please? Good evening, Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is Eileen Roza, I'm the architectural designer from Roza Design and Construction. I represent the owner, Mrs. Anna Rase. The intention here is to extend the heral living space in this single-family dwelling. The addition is intended to be in the back of the house and maintain the existing... Sorry, Madam Chair. Can you tell us which plan we should be looking at by number so we can understand what the proposal is? Down to sheet 8 1.0, that's the proposed floor plan. I'm not sure if the plan is... It's probably going to be back or the trumps, I couldn't see it. The dinner... Yeah, those are the proposed floor plans. The addition is going to be in the back where we have these either a crawl or slap-and-grade addition. It's 24 by 14, addition to extend the kitchen, dining room area, and the bedroom on the second floor. The addition will be of approximately 336 square feet per floor. And in the roof, we have the intention of adding a dormer on the right side to maintain the language on both sides of the roof. And again, in regards to the setback in the same one. Is this still proposed to be a single-family dwelling? Correct. Okay, let me ask you a couple of other questions. The RIA yard. What is required in the RIA yard and what are you proposing? The requirement is 40 feet. The existing was 37.9 and we're proposing 23.9. And you're proposing 23.9, okay? Okay. So you're proposing all together between the first floor and the second floor about 672 square feet. And what's the proposed size of the dormer? The size of the dormer will be basically the same size of the roof. It comes all the way from front to back. And to give him a setback mention, it's about, let me say, I have it right here. It's about 45 feet deep. It's an A-frame roof. If you look at the front elevation, and it will just go all the way from front to back. It's basically mimicking the existing left dormer. Okay. You know, I happen to be driving by the place. I don't live that far away when that garage was enclosed. It was enclosed over a weekend. I have to admire the speed that it was done with. But I also know that there's a child care that's being run out of the basement. Is that child care been, is that? Because I just need to understand that that child care has been approved by this ward, or if it went in, if it just went in. Right. My understanding is that Mrs. Ries, he's been having this child care for many years now. And she went through the whole process for the approval. She might have gotten through the state, but she might not have come in through this ward, because there's an issues with drop off and pick up and things like that, because wall worth is a fairly busy street. So we just, when a project comes before us, we just need to make sure that we understand it in its totality. I understand. Yeah. Okay. So I'm the family child care in our basement floor plan as well. Which by the way, we're proposing a, in order to improve the means of egresses for safety reasons, we're proposing to window wells and an additional egress towards the exterior. If you scroll up, you'll be able to see it. So tell us exactly what she is. Yeah. Okay. Maybe 1.0. Yep. That one right there on the left. That's the basement floor plan. Okay. And basically it's just adding those two window wells in the back, just in case of emergency right now, it's not there. And that additional means of egress on the right side of the dwelling. Okay. How are the plans, Mr. Robinson? The plans are fine. I guess I had some similar questions just about not as much about the addition on the second floor and the third floor. I think that's probably generally fine. It was, it was about the lower level child care. Are those bedrooms? Is that, are they nap rooms? Is the whole lower level the child care area? Or those? The whole lower level is the child care area. Okay. So there are no bedrooms down there. Are you comfortable, Mr. Robinson, with the dormers? Because, you know, I think the dormers are, I understand. And I think the matching of the, the left hand side has the full length dormer. I think the right hand side, I mean, I think the BPDA should look at a little closer to make sure it's consistent or see if there's maybe a way to break it up. But I'm generally okay with it. I think more just to figure out if we, do we need to confirm the lower level, you know, is a legal use or something? I don't know. Is it neat? Yeah, I just kind of need to be advertised. Madam, Tom, Tom looked it up. He's going to display you guys. Madam, do you have the legal office to see a record of this property? Is a single family with an accessory day care use? Okay, that's good. Okay. No, no other questions from me, unless you have some for me, Madam Chair. No, I think I'm good. Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition of this proposal? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor Newman with the Mayor's Office and Neighborhood Services. Our office conducted a butters meeting for this proposal. At the meeting, there was a mix of opinions expressed. Our office has received both support and opposition letters from Director butters. And believe the board should have access to those. Thank you. I'm Chair Secretary here. We do have six letters of opposition and one letter of non-opposition from the long co- table. Madam Chair, I have no raised hands at the moment. No, I do recognize some names. So I think Liz Salock is here. Excuse me one moment. I have my hand raised since the 21 wall worth was brought up. But I'm not sure if the function is working correctly. Well, we can hear you clearly. So why don't you put your name and address on the record and tell us what your thoughts are about this. Okay, my name is Alita Aska. My husband and I David Chen and I live at 942 South Street. We are direct of butters to 21 wall worth. The back of our yard goes right along the left side of the right side of their property as you face it from the street. So thank you, Madam Chairwoman, for acknowledging me. We would like to voice our strong opposition to this proposed alteration. Our property and our life here would be directly and significantly affected by this project. The main points are several. One, the building permit application has already been refused on six separate violations. We have concerns about the fire risk posed by further decreasing the size, the distance between the property building on the air side and also our property. About 20 years ago there was a big fire in that house and we almost lost our house too. And I'm really reluctant to see further movement out from the side of the house that would make it closer to ours. It would significantly and permanently alter how we use our yard and compromise our quality of life because it would change the amount of sunlight we get for our garden and things like that. If I might summarize, your concern is just maybe if I could put it right, the density of it by getting bigger. Any other concerns? Exactly. I'm concerned about the size of the house being too big for the available lot and it's not in keeping with the other homes in the neighborhood. I'm concerned about the children and the childcare but wonder about the ultimate use of the basement when there is a kitchen and a bathroom and a laundry facility, etc. down there. And if that were to be an apartment, then the backyard would need to be even bigger, not smaller. And I see no hardship in the current living situation there. We've been neighbors with them for 20 years at least and we see no hardship there. So we respectfully ask that you deny issuing variances for this proposed alteration and I thank you very much for the opportunity to speak. Madam Chair, I'd also want to bring up to your attention that there was also a meeting with the Longfellow Area NewHead Association and we received a little approval. We went through and we also received nine letters of approval for this product with the waters. Okay. Anybody else to speak on this? Can you miss ambassador? Only because I recognize the name. Can you put in Liz Selik? Liz Selik? Does she own as a panel? Yes, she's on the side on the list of participants. I don't know what you, if I don't even know if you want to speak. Okay, let me go. Okay, I see your name. Okay. I sent a request to unmute you, Liz. Please let me know if you'd like to speak. I just unmuted myself. No, I'm not here to speak. I submitted a written comment. Thank you. Thank you. Anybody else? Oh, I see a, we have a raise hand by Lucy. Lucy, Lucy, will you look at a gift testimony here? I just unmuted you. Hi, Lucy, can you hear us? I know you're on twice. I sent a request to unmute you on both platforms. It might be all set. Yeah, it might be having issues with Lucy, but I have no additional raised hands here. Okay, I would like to speak. Who is that? And please put your name and address on the record. My name is Pauline Young. I live at 931 South Street. My concern is that in this particular neighborhood, there's space between each home. There's land that each home has. To me, if those extensions are given to the 21-wall width, it will be the only property in this whole neighborhood that would not fit into this space that everybody else has. It feels totally out of being appropriate for this neighborhood. And I too have concerns, but I have concerns about the daycare to be honest. Okay, thank you. Yeah, thank you. Yes, we know that the daycare is regulated by the Commonwealth, so we will trust on the judgment. Madam, sorry, I just wanted to add one more thing to, so we are on the same page. And it's the fact that this lot is, comparing with the others around, it's a smaller lot. And the intention here for Mrs. Anna's to extend her living space right now, she only has about 1,366 square feet for her home. And she just needs to add more space there to have a better space for her family, as she's willing to. This is basically her long-term dressings. So, how many bedrooms is she going to? It's, you're going to keep the same amount of bedrooms. It's just adding a master bedroom with a master bathroom and a walking closet. How many in total? It's a total of three. Okay. Okay, so given all that information, may I have a motion, please? I mean, I think I will make a motion to approve. I think the BPDA can do a design proviso on assessing the size and scale the dormer specifically regards to the abouter's concern in terms of light. So I think they could look at potentially pulling that back and creating a little bit more relief to the rearer butters. That would agree with you, Mr. Robinson. I second that. Yes, I too am in support. So it's approval with design review because I drive by that building is down the street for me. And I do understand that that side dormer will probably have the greatest impact on the building and on the abouters. Okay. Thank you. Okay, so you're all set with that proviso. Thank you. Going to next case, calling the BOA 12643116 to 6A, Bendum Street. This is a constructed third floor vertical addition to an existing two family. The violations on the 67 section 9, the flu day ratio is excessive. Article 67 section 9, the building height is excessive in stories. And on the 67 section 9, the side yard is insufficient. Maybe that's just for the record please. Hi, my name is John Freeman. I'm the architect and this is my own house. So my address is 6 Bendum Street. It's a two family townhouse style and the other side is owned by David Dangler, who is also here with me tonight. We are on our FAR. We're about 200 square feet over in proposing this and the existing house is 8 inches over the setback. So the setback violation is simply an incentive for non-cformment. Can we take a step back please? Yes, sir. That's exactly what you're proposing to do. Oh, I'm sorry. Well, if you could switch, if you go to this second to last page, I think that's the clearest indication. We're adding, as they said, a third floor and one more. Yeah, so I guess you can't see the whole page. Go down to the bottom then of that page. So stop right there. So you can see the data line of the white stripe that's in the is the current height and we're essentially lifting the roof up five and a half feet to create a third story. We're aligning the ridge with the house on the left approximately and the eaves with the house on the right so that it fits into the neighborhood. Because these is townhouse style, we're adding the third floor to each unit, but the units don't connect. The party will all go through. Okay, and so essentially that takes response to the side. How about, so this is an existing side of the art violation? And please tell me about the FAR. The FAR by adding the third floor, we're going to be 200 square feet less than 290 something over the FAR. But it didn't seem to make sense to pull back from the perimeter of the house. And then the the height violation is not vertical dimension, but rather that it's more than two and a half stories. Stories, stories, audit. So hold on a minute, Mr. Robinson, how are the plans? Plans are good. I think the proposed addition is consistent with the street. I don't have any issues with the proposal. Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition? Of this proposal. Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor Newman with the Mayor's Office and Neighborhood Services. At this time, we'd like to defer to the board's judgment. Now, butters meeting was held, which was not well attended. Our office is not received any letters of support or opposition. And we understand that the applicant has met with the local civic association. Thank you. Chair, we do have one support letter. Thank you. We had four butters that are butters. Thank you. Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition? Anybody else? Mr. Ambassador? Tom, did we lose Mr. Ambassador? I have no raised hands at the moment. Thank you. Okay, so may I have a motion, please? Make a motion to approve with BPDAT's interview. I'll second motion. Thank you, Madam Chair. I do them in support. So you're all set. Good luck. Thank you. Thank you. Change calling DOA 1264-4216 Belier Road. This is finishing the attic. Include a bedroom full bath family room. Three storage closets. The violations, Article 56, Section 8. Excessive FFAR. Even adjust for the record. Hi, AirFan and Marie Collie by Six Belier Road, West Rossbury. Tell us what's being proposed. So this is our home. We lived here three and a half years. There's a walk-up attic with a complete stairwell going up. It's a big beautiful open space. And we're just looking to finish it off. Adding a guest room and an area play area for our two young girls. And as they get older, maybe they'll use it as a study area. So there'll be no changes to the existing footprint. All the work will be done internally. So tell us about the floor to ceiling height. Does it look like you're okay? So tell us about the floor to ceiling height. It's a full, full height. So I think there's 10 feet in there. So we would just match it to the rest of the ceiling in our house. It's completely finished. And you're using some of the space in the knee walls then. Nothing below five feet. Okay. Okay. How are the plants, Mr Robinson? Plans are good and very strict. Before no questions. Okay. Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition of this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor Newman from the Mayor's Office and Neighborhood Services. The applicant went before the West Rocksbury Neighborhood Council on December 14th. Received a support vote of 8 to 0. Six letters of support were also sent in from directed butters to our office. And I believe we've made those available at this time will defer to the board. Thank you. Yeah, they're on the way. I'll call you back. Okay. Mr Ambassador, anybody else? I have no raise hands at the moment. Okay. May I have a motion, please? I'll make a motion to approve. I'll second that motion. I too am in support. So you're all second. Good luck. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. So let me confirm that's the end of the agenda, right? My correct, Madam Chair. You win the prize. Okay. Meeting is now adjourned. See our board members on Tuesday. Can I thank you? Okay. You're safe.