 The Board of Appeals for Tuesday, September 27th is now in session. Just a reminder, please turn off your cell phones. Also, any conversations need to be taken outside of the room. It is very difficult for us to hear. If you are here to speak either in support or in opposition to a project, please put your name and address on the record. If somebody has already stated your concern, please just put your name and address on the record. We would like to get some new information with everybody who comes up and speaks at the mic. Also, input from both the BRA and the community is advisory to this board. Finally, in conformance with the open meeting law, this meeting is being live streamed. Mr. Fortune? Good morning. Board final, obiter calling B.O.A. 397-922-1465 Commonwealth Avenue. This is a veterans mixed income housing project demolition of an existing building, the Bright Marine Hospital, and a new six-story 101 unit residential building. This is also one of the BRA design review. Name and address for the record, please. Good morning, Chairman Neuroyo and Secretary Fortune. Mary Marshall of Nut and MacLean at Fish 155-Cport Boulevard. We are here today coming back before you frame minor modification of prior relief. Following a period before this board, in February of 2015, we worked for about two years. We had worked for about two years with Mass Historic pertaining to some existing buildings on the project site. We finally reached closure with Mass Historic. As part of that, we had to retain two buildings on the Bright Marine campus requiring us to reconfigure the lot, which is just slightly reconfigured the lot that's the subject of the project site, and move one of the buildings off site also onto Bright Marine's campus. So we're back before you, minor modification, modification of the project site, as shown on the attachments, which I filed with the board. What was the original, was it for veterans housing? It is a clearly affordable 80 of 102 units are affordable as the city considers affordable, and there's a veterans preference. You can't make it veterans housing only, but you can have the veterans' presence. And so there are two full changes. One, what are the changes that you're requesting? Changes are a minor modification in the FAR. The relief is the same. It's just a slight uptick in the flurry area ratio of 1.7 as opposed to 1.69, and one additional unit, and a slightly smaller lot size. As I reviewed the letter, there was also reduction in parking. Exactly, I'm so sorry, yes. There's a reduction in the surface parking again to accommodate the retention of the building. There are 12 spaces. We're still at .87 per unit, and we've reviewed it both with the BRA and back before the IAG, and they had with Boston Transportation as well, and they had no objection to the reduction in parking. It's well served by public transport. Yeah, but you know, great. Exactly. We all listed that with a little bit of grain of salt. I have not seen, do we have any price? Yes, we do. Actually, they were submitted with the letter. I have them before you, ma'am. Thank you. And Brad, I'm from the York State Community this year as well. What has been filed with the board shows the existing site configuration as well as the before and after. If you look at it, I find it hard to notice from the perspective. We've reviewed it with BRA design staff. The retention of a building, which is slightly off site, but that's the only visible change. Madam Chair, I'm Mr. Boyd. I've reviewed the drawings and the changes indeed are going to make a motion to prepare for questions. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. You're all set. We're just going to take a minute and go back for the approval of the minutes. May I have a motion, please? Motion, please. Is there a second? Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? I'm requesting of ISD staff that we have a date, certain by when these minutes will be typed, so that they are more official than handwritten notes. Two that, eight, and eight. Okay. Thank you. We're going to call the 930 extensions, calling BOA 376 752 27 Cook Street. There is a companion case, BOA 376 757 29 Cook Street. Just Cook Street here. We'll hold cook off to the side. Calling the next case, calling BCC 32535 233 Optin Street. Name an address for the record, please. Sean, the band 23 Optin Street representing Richard Campana. Tell us what you're requesting, please. So, requesting extension of the permit for up to eight months due to Richard Campana's health. He's had tripped bypassed and passed 18 months, and he's called me into actually be his project manager for this to see it through, but we need an extension of the mechanicals. And the permit for the mechanical drawings. Eight months would bring you to win. I believe may. To may. May I have a motion, please. Motion to grant the grant for a request for an 8 month extension. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries are all set. Calling BOA 416371 4020 D place. There's also companion case, BOA 416398 426 Duet Street. Name an address for the record, please. For the record, Chris Rainier from Gulston and Stores 400 Atlantic Avenue. Thank you. Since we were last year, this is an extension of time that has been previously extended. We have been working with our new ISD plan examiner to review the project and new article 48. We've had two meetings with him first to review the project and then specifically dealing with article 48. He then requested a follow-up memo from us, which we have provided. So we're here requesting a shorter extension just to give the plan examiner time to review our memo and ask any follow-up questions. Thank you. The requesting. 30 days, man. 30 days, and you're sure, because we've seen this case. I don't know how many times we've lost count. There have been many times and he does have the memo and we hope we're hopeful that 30 days will work. Okay, so we may have a motion for extension to October 30th. I'll make a motion for a 30-day extension. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. You're all set. Thank you very much. I'm going to go to the 930 hearings. Are there any deferrals or withdrawals for 930? Address, please. 45 in red row. For the record, calling BOA60296025 in red. Name an address for the record, please. Mr. please. Please, you know. Mr. Speaker, Stephen Greenbaum, 200 High Street Boston. Please tell us why you're requesting. You need to furrow, because we've not yet had an opportunity to meet with the Austin Civic Association. We did meet with the Brighton-Ollston Improvement Association. However, we've been advised by Carl Berkley that he wishes us to also meet with them. We're planning to meet with them at their October meeting. For that reason, I'd request it to Ferrell at this time. What is this of request for? We're requesting to build a single family dwelling on what is currently an empty lot. That is currently an empty lot? Okay. Yes. And it looks like there are a lot of violations. May I have a motion please? Motion in the first. There are a second. All those in favor? Aye. Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. The date please. We'll have a date of November, first. Thank you. November, first at 11th. Bad dress please. Five, six, one, ask, who's the seven? Dawn and Douglas Segal. Hold on a second, ma'am. Full the record calling BOA 601-237-560-61, Massachusetts. I have name and address to the record please. Dawn and Douglas Segal, 05-61, Massachusetts. I have a new unit one. Tell us what you're requesting, please. We're here to request a postponement. There was a notification problem with landmarks approval and our neighbors were concerned about that as were we. We didn't want to come before you without resolving this issue with our neighbors. Okay. May I have a motion please? All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? The date please. It's like we're in November, first. Thank you very much. You're in November, first at 1130. Thank you very much. Bad dress please. We'll have a green seat. We'll have a record in comment. BOA 589-354-211 Green Street. Name and address for the record please. Rebecca Lee, mince 11, one financial center Boston. I am confirming withdrawal without prejudice of this application by our client. I'm made on September 6th. We'll make a motion for denial without prejudice. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. We're all set. Good luck. Bad dress please. Number one in our country. Number two. For the record calling BOA 586-332-101-Passen Street. Name and address for the record please. Harris, single Ryan standing in for Kevin Joyce of the Dirty Law offices. 50 Franklin Street, Boston on behalf of the owner, Michael Flerty. We respectfully request a deferral at the recommendation of the mayor's office of neighborhood services and district councilor C. Omos Office to allow for more work with the community. So this is to change the occupancy to a three family. And this is a request of legalized and existing condition. It is. Okay. Have you had any process? We have. We have. So we've had in a butter's meeting. We missed the last meeting of the BAIA, the Brighton Austin Improvement Association. Due to the Labor Day holiday, they meet the first Thursday of the month. We have a scheduling conflict so we couldn't be there. So we'd like to attend their next meeting of October 13th. Okay. All those in favor? Aye, aye. Any opposed? The date please? We are in December right now so December 6th. Okay. Thank you. December 6th at 1130. Thank you very much. Address please. 252-262. Ann. Sorry to be addressed again. 252-262. Harris and F. For the record calling VOA, please. I'm sorry to be addressed again. 252-262. Harris and F. For the record calling VOA, 616-489-252-262. Harris and F. Name and address for the record please. My name is Willie Wong, Architect, 45 Walden Street, Compton Mass, representing the owner, Ty Tong Village. We're here to withdraw our appeal for Article 32. We have the support of Ms. Susan Rice at the ISD. I've spoken to Chris Seminelli of the Boston Groundwater Trust, and we have found the project to be exempt from Article 32. We're here to withdraw our appeal. We can first want to put your name and address on the record please. Yes, Cmoney Madam Chairman, as the board, Christian Seminelli Groundwater Trust. It appears that the project was just in properly cited Article 32. They don't meet any of the triggers that would ultimately trip them into the zoning cell. I conferred with ISD as well. We have a motion please. You should deny without prejudice, Inspector. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries are all set. Thank you, Chris. Thank you. Adress please. 609-253. 69-81. Yes. For the record calling VOA, 625-760-692-81 Kilmonex Street. There is a companion case VOA, 625-767-692-81 Kilmonex Street. Name and address for the record please. Marlene Award, 69 Kilmonex Street, Boston 02215. Please tell us what you're requesting. Yes, I'm not. Good morning everyone. I'm the managing partner for the Gromack Group LLC, DBA Tapestry Restaurant. We were informed that we needed to come forward to request a permanent approval to put our awning up on our patio. I guess there were some... I put the case today on the withdrawing. Yes. Please have a seat. We'll come back later. Okay, thank you. Adress please. Dispared deferral or withdrawal. This is only deferrals or withdrawal. Yes. Okay, Adga. Well, the record calling VOA-585-221-11 Lafayl Street. Name and address for the record please. I'm the A.A.J. Dupur on the here, on behalf of My Phone, the architect who was out of the country in my evening trip. He asked for the deferral sometimes. He said, I'm here. Okay, may I have a motion, please? Motion for all. Sorry. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed to date, please? December 13th. Thank you. Add 1130. Name and address. Please. Dear guests. Good morning, John, we're using address please. 64 Allen Del Street. Let me call it up for the record. For the record. Calling VOA-606-484-64C Allen Del Street. There are companion cases, VOA-606-486-666. 66-666-A Allen Del Street. VOA-606-487-68-68B Allen Del Street. VOA-606-488-70-70B Allen Del Street. VOA-606-489-72-72B Allen Del Street. And VOA-606-490-74-74B Allen Del Street. Name and address for the record please. Don Ways with the Dane Torpe Law from Advoston, 745, Atlantic Avenue. Please feel this way through requesting. Here requested to for all this morning. On what basis? There is some state environmental permitting related to this project that is underway. It technically could be completed after the municipal process, but we hope to make more progress on it before coming before the board. Second, along the referral, are you requesting? November would be ideal. Early November, if that date works with the board's calendar. May I have a motion please? Is there a second? All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries to date please? December 13th. Thank you very much. 1130. Are there any other deferrals or withdrawals for the 930 hearings? Hearing now, we'll go to the first case. Calling the OA 539-624-61 Braintree Street. This is the converting existing 14 foot by 48 foot two sided static billboard. So a 14 by 48 two sided digital billboard. Violations are, Article 11, Section 7. Electronic billboards are forbidden. Article 51, Section 20. Hight of an electronic billboard is excessive. Article 51, Section 55. Electronic billboards are forbidden sign regulations. And Article 9, Section 1, extension of a non-conforming use. Name and address for the record please. Mike Morello, clear channel outdoor. 89 Maple Street, Stono Mass. Please, can you first tell us if this is a legal billboard? Is it in the, listed in the jacket as an allowed use? I believe it's a legal non-conforming billboard. Yes. Okay. So tell us what you're proposing. We're proposing to convert two existing 19 by 48 printed billboards, which are the vinyl billboards, to a two sided 14 by 48 digital billboards. We're actually proposing to reduce the overall size by approximately 27%. The area I noticed that this is a request for the furl. Is there a reason for that? Well, we never got a chance to review the plans. So we didn't want to do a denial. We give them the benefit of the doubt. And is there supposed to be a process by which the distance between billboards are tracked? Or that's always responsibility not the cities. Okay. How are the plans, Mr. Bazzani? Drawing the right. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak and support of this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the board, I will requesting from the Office of the Neighbored Services more time, the applicant for a short deferral. There's a couple of questions within the community that they're going to be working to answer. And this was brought to the attention of the Office of Neighbored Services today. So I'm requesting. Please tell us what are the questions? I believe it's a conversation about if it's fitting for the neighbourhood. And I was asked the applicant for a short deferral. If it's appropriate. I do believe in this case. Okay. Respectfully. Excellent. May I have a motion to that effect? May I have a second? All by some favor? Aye. Any opposed? The date, please? Thank you. December 6th. Thank you. It will see you December 6th at 1130. Thank you. Following the next three cases. Calling BOA 542-316-126-128 Newton Street. The companion case is BOA 542-319-130-132 Newton Street. And BOA 542-318-134-136 Newton Street. This is for 126-128 Newton Street. This is a renovation and expansion of an existing guarded house building. I'm multi-family use. Comparizing remarks from the 109 dwelling units. Violations are. Article 51, section 8. Use regulations. Okay, with me. I'll be right back. Two family dwelling units for bidding. Article 51, section 9. Floority, a ratio is excessive. Article 51, section 9. Front yard is insufficient. Article 51, section 9. Side yard is insufficient. Article 51, section 9. Rhea is insufficient. And Article 51, section 56. Off street parking. Requirements. This is for 130 to 132. This is directly to family dwelling. Each dwelling will have two carage beneath. This is to be one of three buildings on the same lot. There will be also six additional parking spaces at grade along the right side of 134 and 136. Violations are. Article 51, section 8. Two family dwelling is for bidding. Use. Article 51, section 9. Floority, a ratio is excessive. Article 51, section 9. Front yard is insufficient. Article 51, section 9. Side yard is insufficient. Article 51, section 9. Rhea is insufficient. And Article 51, section 56. Off street parking. Requirements. This is for 134 to 136. To the street. This is directly to family dwelling. Each dwelling will have a two carage beneath. This is to be one of three buildings on the same lot. There will also be six additional parking spaces at grade along the right side. A one thirty four to one thirty six. Newton Street. Violations are. Article 51, section 8. Two family dwelling is for bidding. Article 51, section 9. Floority, a ratio is insufficient. Article 51, section 9. Front yard is insufficient. Article 51, section 9. Side yard is insufficient. Article 51, section 9. Rhea is insufficient. And Article 51, section 56. Off street parking. Requirements. Name and address for the record please. I am Chair. acoustic locked car. Using for rent you. The nine Min fine courtesy journey continued and. In arawd Newman List representing the property owner. On Open間 of the 92. Big old street LG. With us as well. Project architect, bark major. And Eric abort morning. The project is a 44 dollar adopt. This very narrow, unusual. Their small parcel. just by way of background just to the east of this project about a block up the street the board approved by the same owner a development about two and a half years ago of four units on a smaller three on some side a smaller parcel these two parcels were purchased by mr. del Melbandi and who also owns the very large parcel behind this that leads up to Bigelow Street which is a very very large parcel so give us the dimensions of the parcel in the parcel in question it's 12 plus or minus 12,000 square feet 12,000 square feet and because of the the slope back there part of it is undevelopable part of it is undevelopable and these parcels were actually purchased by mr. del Melbandi and years ago in order to try to gain access to the Bigelow parcel that project has is not before you that projects change substantially doesn't require access any longer so the up before us it well it may be in the future nothing's been filed yet okay nothing's been filed and how many proposed units and that one that's kind of a little bit up in the air it's gone from a very large multi-family development into a much smaller project but it's being worked on as we speak it has not been vetted in the neighborhood or once ready to help the process so this is 12,000 square feet but three units yes three two families three two families each of which has a two-carrier on site each of which is a they're very generous units 1800 plus square feet three bed two and a half bath again as I suggested with two spaces for each we were vetted in a very lengthy community review process which culminated in a and a butters meeting on the site which is very well attended and a very positive outcome we had a very strong meeting with the Brighton Austin Improvement Association might memory is that we were unanimously approved at that meeting for this development so we you know can you please speak to some of these variances here because we tell us about the location of off-street parking requirements what what what is triggering that the trigger of that is as you heard in the recitation the six additional parking spaces this was done to accommodate to the this to the west of this parcel is a very large condominiums 60-year condominium building buildings set of buildings and they were very anxious to acquire some parking because they're very shy on parking where they are Mr. Belk now body and agreed in the process of communicating with them over many months on this project to provide those six spaces to accommodate them so that would be slightly to the west of our last building so between our last building and the entrance drive what you can show on this and the entrance drive to the economy and the building so this is your providing ancillary parking to the abutting property yes and is that going to be in the deed or how is that going to be managed it's going to be it'll be dated to that did it to be yes there the at the actual the exactly of that building the manager of the buildings here and speak to that if you desire to the plans for the designing the drives are adequate question about the parking the parking is it in fact parking to sale but they they just have parking generally Mr. Bosani for their buildings and they're always looking for more spaces so what happened is unfortunately the development of the building maintains and the condominium association doesn't have control of those spaces so they were shy spaces for their for their unit owners these are all just random we use by the unit owners and this would give them the ability to provide more parking for the all of the different all any other questions from the board anybody here to speak in support of this proposal madam chair members of the board Warren or Riley Office of Neighborhood Services for Olsen Brighton after completing the community process approved in the civics meetings and in the butter's meetings we'd like to go in support madam chair members of the board Kevin McLaughlin from council of Seattle's office we'd also like to be on record in support good morning madam chair members of the board my name is Alana Olsen and here for counselor Asabi George we'd like to go on record in support madam chair members of the board and the programs from the Brighton also who moved association we'd like to go and record in support my name is KJ digmani I'm the owner of YF management the 65 unit countless that Mr. Nell Bannon was referring to earlier I'd like to go on record in support of this development position may I have a motion please motion for approval with the already resigned you all those in favor any opposed motion carries with that provides oh thank you calling the away 566 677 296 North Beacon Street this is replacing existing 20 foot by 64 to side of billboard with a 14 foot by 48 for two-sided electronic digital billboard the violations article 6 article 11 section 7 electronic signs article 51 section 55 section 55 dash 55 billboards are forbidden name and address of the record place proponents not here name and address for the record please Mike Marallo Clarechinal outdoor 89 Maple Street Stone on mass madam chair members of the board respectfully and I again I apologize we respectfully requesting a short deferral more time for some last minute questions that were brought to light today I apologize again may I have a motion please all those in favor any opposed the gate please we have December 13th the last one is 126 I don't know I'm looking at that right now is it possible you can do 126 December 6th at 1130 thank you calling the away 621 869 400 soldiers field road soldiers field road here this is to increase the accuracy for Scullos Jazz club from 180 to 244 persons the violations out of late section 6 pre-existing conditions name and address for the record please a good morning Chris Rainier from Wilson and stores 400 Lanark Avenue Paul Boehler made a call to your main street architects 25 Matthews and Dress D.S. was being proposed I thank you and good to be here for project this is for it only exterior relocation of the existing scholars Jazz Club it's moving from the second floor of the double tree hotel down to the first floor and there's going to be a slight expansion and seating so there's no changes to the outside of the building no changes to the site or parking we're really excited about this project it'll allow for a slightly bigger stage which will allow the club to have more acts different acts and also the existing stage upstairs was not a handicap compliant so we're now able to provide a handicap accessible stage which will also help the club attract attract acts and continue to be successful just any questions from the board just curiosity which I've been there with we're right in the right in the center of the lobby the main like lecture room that they have right in the center this face upstairs would become a meeting room and expansion in the bar does anybody here to speak in support of this proposal madam chair members of the board office enabled services roles and right we are here to speak in support madam chair members of the board Kevin McLaughlin from councilor Siomo's office we'd also like to go on the record as being in school again madam chair members of the board Alana Olsen from councilor Saby during his office we'd like to go on record and support and here is the board of directors and the carpenter seating would like to go on record as a board is anybody here in opposition may have a motion please all those in favor any opposed motion carries you're all second left thank you calling B O A 625 760 69 to 81 Kilm on our street there was a companion case B O A 625 767 69 to 81 Kilm on our street this is to install a canopy over private property on Queensborough Street and recover in existing awning over entrance of Kilm on Xtrees the violations article 66 section 15 front yard is insufficient this is for 69 to 81 Kilm on it this is to add 36 exterior seating to the existing patio area on the property of 69 Kilm on our street the violation of the article 66 section 14 outdoor cafe is conditional name and address for the record please morning Marlene award 69 to 81 Kilm on Xtrees Boston O 2215 so tell us what's being proposed so we are proposing to cover the pre-existing outdoor patio at 69 Kilm on Xtrees with an awning which would allow us to extend the outdoor use of the patio throughout the inclement seasons and I know that it was stated that I think there's some confusion as to whether this patio is already in existence and approved and just by way of background I just wanted to be the restaurant the restaurant is now tapestry restaurant we bought the space from church restaurant last winter and last fall we conducted a meeting with the Fenway Civic Association and the neighborhood of butters which so tell us again so I miss the pizani can tell us where the seating is is being proposed I'm sorry we're searching for the drawing show and I'm sorry madam chairperson just to clarify the patio has been in use for decades and years we just wanted to make sure and this is going to be just a patio for essentially summer and early fall use I'm not going to be any screening or anything like that no there won't be any screening it will have heaters in lights above the awning as originally proposed just again to extend the season wherever possible we have on file a certified plot plan I don't know if does the committee need another copy yes and also the city asked us to get a engineered set of drawings from the vendor which we provided and a certified plot plan which we've provided the depth is about 15 feet 15 feet to the property yes what about the value so the edge of the patio is from the edge of the property to the edge of the building to the edge of the patio is 15 feet it is right to the curb I'm not to the curb it's right in the back edge of the sidewalk so it just to clarify it doesn't go to the curb it just goes to where our railing is currently when we purchase the property there is a railing that encloses the patio and we're simply trying to put a cover over the space is it the entire length of the building or is it the portion of the width of the building it is the width on the clean square street the building sits on the kilomonic the kilomonic and the clean square is the width of the building the clean square is the park where the proposed sign is going okay um any questions from the board is anybody here to speak and support of this proposal you know I also have a letter one minute sorry Madam Chair members of the board Jake Wessel mayors office and neighborhood services we'd like to go on record and support as the applicant mentioned we held a successful neighborhood of butters meeting at the location where we discussed the patio and I can speak to the patio does not impede the sidewalk as it only exists on private property thank you Madam Chair members of the board and a card of our councilor say comes office we'd like to go on record and support as well thank you is anybody here in opposition may have a motion please much approval the area is not a square all those in favor any opposed it's been a few good luck thank you a 608 954 89 Claibouan street this is building a 20 by 20 square foot two-cat garage attached to the house with a main entrance overhead of 12 by 8 violations or article 9 section one garage for a three-family home located in a 2F sub district article 9 section 1 extension of a 9 conforming use to extend living space into the basement in an area in a 2F sub district section 9 insufficient front yard setback article 65 section 9 insufficient side yard setback the garage article 65 section 9 insufficient open space article 65 section 9 excessive FAR in the basement name and address for the record please good morning board member Vargas Düsselvera 89 Claibouan street please tell us what's being proposed what's being proposed today it's already existing the garage had been started by someone and also the abacement had already been existing just trying to legalize and the I believe the tell us tell us both about both tell us about the basement what is the floor of ceiling height and what is what is the use of the basement and the basement is I mean it's extended to the first floor from the homeowner into the basement with the family have four children it was when he bought the building several years ago it had already existed he improved upon it and he intent to see the ceiling height is and if there are any what the use of the basement is as a bedroom as a playroom what is it more playroom I believe there is one bedroom and in the abacement that they need it's more of recreational area that they're using it for there's laundry there is also boiler room that's down there the height of the abacement is greater than seven feet I've been there a couple times and it's it's pretty high tell us about the garage the garage is already the frame is already there all of the walls is there is just the door and the roof that's not there that want to put in place we have a site plan that shows the location of the garage we have no documentation on the basement was this project before us before this board before yes it was and the last time we had all the community support and everything else for some reason the board found it not to be adequate or something and then we appeal to superior court and with the city agreement they asked us to come back that they will support like they had before yes correct so if we go to superior court and what did the court say that you should bring it back for our review well we got into agreement with the city of Austin to bring it back I want to make a motion I think we should make a motion to defer this until we have adequate information on the process I'll make the motion for deferral all those in favor any opposed can we have a date the earliest we can do is 713 okay and in the meantime make sure that we have all the information we need about the process you went through and what exactly the court is asking us to do okay I don't believe the court had actually issued a ruling what we did to dismiss the case we got an agreement with the city they said that the year was over for us to come back and resubmit okay so talk to the staff just to make sure we have everything that we need okay thank you if you said with 13 yes December 13 so does a motion yes simply yeah we should probably have make sure that we have enough information to make a decision so if it requires legal department review so Matt we ask we to coordinate it okay so there's a motion that the second and you have a date that we are relying on you to make sure we have all the information okay I think the OA 616222 25 rare Holley Street this is to change oxygen from an existing accessory detached carriage house to a new single family dwelling located to the side of the existing two family main house violation of the 65 section 41 location off street parking should not be located any part of the front yard Article 65 section 42.13 two or more dwellings on the same lot Article 65 section 9 lot areas insufficient due to the change from the carriage house to dwelling Article 65 section 9 lot width is insufficient due to the change from carriage house to dwelling Article 65 section 9 lot frontage is insufficient due to the change from a carriage house to a dwelling Article 65 section 9 usable open spaces insufficient due to the change from a carriage house to dwelling and Article 65 section 9 side yard is insufficient due to the change from a carriage house to a dwelling name and address for the record please Daniel McDowell attorney two granite avenue and Milton with me is Joseph Gilday the owner of the property and Ed Rhoch who is the architect on this project So please tell us what is being proposed Several Mr. Gilday and his wife have owned this property for a number of years they live in the two family house at number 50 Rosland Street A number of years ago they took on an extensive renovation to preserve this carriage house which is one of the architectural beauties of Ashmont Hill and this appeared last summer on the Ashmont Hill house to our head over 400 visits The carriage house has been completely What is in the main dwelling? The main dwelling is the two family house The main dwelling is the two family house The lot size is 13,642 square feet It's a corner lot which causes some of the violations to come into play when you look at the side yard being the front yard and the requirement that the carriage house when being converted from a carriage house to a residence Must look as if it's own on its own lot and because the carriage house is tucked into the back corner of this lot The violations come up We've had extensive community meetings this support from the Ashmont Hill association after a meeting that took place in the building We've met with the neighbors and we are the issues that the violations really are just because we're going to go from a carriage house which once had resident in it That resident being the person who cared for the horses when there were carriages in this particular structure Mr. Roach has some wonderful photos of the innovation Let's just talk about today and the recent past Is this going to be on a foundation? Yes, there's an existing foundation There is an existing foundation, okay? How are the plans Mr. Pazani? The drawings are adequate Any questions from the board? What is the current use of the carriage house? He's been using it as storage for a lot of several years I think you seem like the relative window seems like it's been worked There's been a lot of renovation to preserve it under a permit as storage The renovation has been ongoing to preserve this building for a number of years Right now this is just not a permit to do the work but a permit to change the occupancy So the work was done 2007 Without need for relief because it was merely renovation to an existing structure on the lot I just might add that the building was in a state of collapse at that particular point And I was involved initially in this project to stabilize the structure and get it out to a point where it was no longer a danger to anybody Thank you Do you go ahead? Is this going to be repel? No, they're going to live in Are they subdividing the property? Not at all So they're going to rent out the two families? They are That's correct, they're going to move over to the living grade So it's all rental on the ground? Yes Is anybody here to speak and support this proposal? Good Morning Madam Chair, members of the Board, my name is David Codd from the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services I'd like to honor record and support this proposal I held an on-site a butter's meeting which is well attended The butter's expressed their support The Ashmont Hill Association also voted just like this project Thank you Madam Chair, members of the Board, Sean Chiedham, Councillor Andrea Campbell's office We'd also like to go and record and support Thank you. Is anybody here to speak in opposition? May I have a motion please? Motion Motion for approval with continuing be our executive All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries with that Provider with love Thank you very much Probably BOA 60153410 Tolman Street This is to extend living Area Pysley to an existing basement with new access to the air for existing first floor Construct a three-story rear deck Construct an additional story of front porch on the existing front porch Violation is Article 65, Section 9 Floor to air ratio is excessive due to the extension of living space in the basement Article 65, Section 9, side yard is insufficient due to the rear deck and the front and closed porch And Article 9, Section 1 is extension of a non-conforming use Name and address for the record please Name and address for the record please Terrick Livel Edgress Number 10 Tolman Street And your name please? Terrick Livel Thank you I'm representing on the architect on the project The Livel Your name please? So tell us what's being proposed We're proposing there's an existing front porch there We're proposing to put another porch right above that to get access for the second floor unit That's actually a three-family house So we are proposing to put another porch on top of the front porch Pretty much piggyback at the same size, same dimension as the existing one but just one on top of it And we are proposing to do a family room slash storage down in the basement with a bathroom down there And we are proposing to do the three back porch And this is the basement extension will be for the first unit? Yeah, you want to put which myself and my wife actually live in And will the rear decks be used as beans of egress or not? No, no, no, we actually have two means of egress from each unit, front and back How are the plans Mr. Bazzani? The lines are adequately it clearly shows a direct access from the first floor unit into the basement What is the floor of the ceiling pipe in the basement? There will be a fee Mr. Bazzani Any questions from the board? Does anybody here have to speak in support of this proposal? Morning Madam Chair, I'm Mr. Borg, my name is David Cotta, I'm a Mayor's Office of the Nipwood Services We would like to go on record and support held in onsite of butter's meeting There's only about four or five people who attended, however they all voiced their support for the project Thank you. Morning Madam Chair, members of the board, Joe McGeckeren, City Councilor Frank Baker's Office Would like to go on record and support? Morning Madam Chair, members of the board, Alana Olson from Councilor Asabi George's Office We'd like to go on record and support. Thank you. Has anybody here an opposition? May I have a motion please? Motion to approve with continued design review. Is there a second? Okay. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries with that provides a good luck. The LA-601136, 12 Erickson Street This is a change actually from an H.C. manufacturing to manufacturing storage in offices on the first floor, offices in storage, construction tools supplies, and office in light manufacturing Violations, Article 65, Section 65-18, light manufacturing is forbidden, Article 65, Section 65-18, offices is conditional May I add just to the record please? Joe Consolvo, Union Construction, 647, Boyleston Street, Boston Please have a second screen proposed. This building is the former Seymour's ice cream manufacturing facility that had been vacant for some time and Ralph and Carmen Bruno of the Vanetzi restaurant Purchased the building. Last year we redid the envelope, new windows, masonry repairs, and a roof. And now the proposal is to change the occupancy to include offices, light manufacturing, and storage. So what does light manufacturing mean? The first floor proposed tenant is a union framing, drywall, compound, so his storage would be a millwork storage. At this time there was no manufacturing, heavy manufacturing planned for the facility. Okay, because it's the light manufacturing use that's forbidden and the offices. They are seeking a tenant for the second floor and have a proposed real estate management firm for the third floor. Okay, how are the plans Mr. Pazani? Roger adequate. Is any questions from the board? Does anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Morning Madam Chair, I'm Mr. Board. My name is David Carter from Mayors Office of the Inverts Services. I'm an executive member of the board and I'm from the board of the board of the board. I'm from the board of the board of the board, thanks. Morning Madam Chair. Members of the board, Joe McGecker, and City Councilor Frank Baker's office. We'd like to go on record and support. Morning Madam Chair, members of the board, Alana Olson, for Councillor Aneesa-Sabi George. Does anybody here in opposition? May I have a motion please? Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries are all set. Thank you. Basic 01006-218-220-1 Street. This is a complete gut renovation. Take off roof and add one new floor, demo the red decks and garage and add a new front and red porches and add a private protection system. Violation, dynamical 65, section 41. Parts free parking and loading requirement, insufficient number of parking spaces would exclusive maneuverability. Article 65, section 41. Parts free parking and loading parking space size. Article 65, section 9, insufficient lot area. Article 65, insufficient lot width. Article 65, excessive floor to air ratio. Article 65, excessive height, number of stories and feet. Article 65, insufficient side yard. Article 65, section 9, insufficient rail yard. Article 86, section 5, insufficient number of parking spaces with exclusive maneuverability. Name and address. Further record please. Attorney Daniel McDevitt, two granted avenue in Milton and with me, Mr. and Mrs. Fogady, who are the owners of the property. So just clarify, is this a single family dwelling? No, it's a five family house. It's a five family and this is a proposal to add an additional floor. And the plans were first submitted. They envisioned taking off the pitched roof, putting on another floor and putting a pitched roof back on. After we had a sidewalk meeting, we agreed to redrive the plans and bring it down to look like what I presented to you this morning, which is a traditional three-decker. So what would happen is the apartment that is in the pitched roof area would merely, the roof would just get up, go up like this and go flat across and it would look like every other door just a three-family house. So this is five units. Tell us about each one of those units. What are their sizes? The sizes of the existing units are what they propose to be. What's being proposed? So unit one would be 1, 280 square feet. Unit two would be 1,790 square feet. Unit three would be 1,596 square feet. Unit four would be 865 square feet. And unit five would be 738 square feet. In fact, unit one is a basement unit, is that correct? What is its current existing legal occupancy? It is. It exists. This is a legal five-family house that we note. It's really just a renovation of an existing structure, changing the roof line, putting inspranklers, putting on new front and rear porches, demolition of a very, very small garage in the backyard. So I'm just trying to get the change in the roof line will make the fifth unit larger over the create that fifth unit. No, it won't create it at all. It'll just enhance the height of the ceilings. I can show you this picture, which shows you the roof line. Right now the unit upstairs, there are eaves there and dormers. And so what would happen is those nooks and crannies of the unit would be eliminated and it would just be boxed up and square around. It would be the same basic floor area, but the usable space would increase because you wouldn't have pictures like there are now. We stayed in the high-end house. No. What the height will be, the height actually in the plans that I submitted today, I think is two feet under the required height for this. And this is a neighborhood design overlay district. So there must be some value to the shape of the house, to the character of the house. This design of this house now complies with the design of all other houses that are typical in this neighborhood as three families, a matter of fact it's identical to the house next door. So what you said in the purpose here, it says add a new floor, that's not really happening. That is not happening now. I know the plans Mr. Bessani. The drones are accurate. Could you state the total number of bedrooms within these five units? The total number for all five units? 12. 12. I get one. 13. No, 12. 12. I want to give us the breakdown by unit? Three. Three bedrooms. A two bedroom under one bedroom. So 738 is a one, 738 square feet, unit five is a one bedroom? Yes. Any other questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Morning Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is David Cotta from Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. We'd like to go on record and support. Held it on side of the waters being, that was well intended. There was some current concerns raised about the roof and also the parking situation, which I believe were addressed. This house is on the corner of Ashmont Street, National Park. Ashmont Park is a very small dead end street, so there are very few opportunities for on-street parking. However, they're not proposing to increase the number of units here. So we're going to support it. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board. Joe McGehrer and City Council of Frank Baker's Office, we'd like to echo the sentiments of the Mayor's Office. Thank you. Is anybody here in opposition? Please put your name and address on the record and tell us why you're opposed. Madam Chair, my name is Delacostello. I live directly next door. And I just want to say for the last 30 years, this house has been a nice or any problem. Technically, it's just not a five family. There is one illegal apartment there that the city, I believe, has known about. There's no second decress. I know the can is going to change all that, but I'm still concerned about the elevations of the house and the parking. We haven't seen the final plans as to the stairs on the east side of the building. So other than that, anything that is done to the house, you could surely be an improvement. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, my name is Donna Smith. I live in Nine Dracoch street. Why reward a problem property? They never shovel, so that's their entire corner. Half the time you come down the street, there's a narrow path leading from the doorway to the street, nothing else. The day when it was knee deep snow, it walked through knee deep snow. And will this time, will this property be owner-occupied? I hope not the pie might help the property and the problems that they're going on in the community with this property. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. There will be this, Linda Sennishal, and it's a good morning, Madam Chairman. Two Ashmont Park, which is the appoding house behind the building. Again, I'd like to reiterate the other complaints about problem tenants in the past. Like that lot of issues with people hanging out on the porch, porches in the back on our side of the house, which is the south side, the north side. And just throwing garbage down off of those porches, it certainly would help to have some additional parking. But I think that having a porch on the back is not something that we would like, because we both get up fairly early in the morning and the people are there until 1, 2, 3, 4 o'clock in the morning talking out. It's not conducive to a good neighborhood. Thank you. Are you going to speak to? Sure. Good. Good morning, Madam Chairman. My name is Linda Sennishal. I'm his wife. I live right behind the house. I asked Ken Twice for elevations, the north elevation, which faces my house, and the east elevation that faces Delas' house in the plant. And I've asked him twice. And I've not received those plants. And I'm opposed to the porches. And I don't know why they can't just put a fire scape instead of the porches. And he told us at his butters meeting that there would be no porches. And now he's putting porches because the acoustics are really loud and the house is close, very close to our house. Thank you. If I might just hold on. Hold on, everybody. Your name and address for the record, please? 381 West Broadway. I'm behind Silver Street right in the area. What's your name? Very Devlin. Okay. Is this related to this project? Is this related to my? No, we are an Ashmont Street. Is this 801 or 801? No, please have a seat. No problem. Okay. So any board members, you have a question? How long have you owned the building? About two and a half years. So is this a gut renovation? Yes. So have you vacated the building? Just the most. One person. He inherited all the bad tenants. He admits he put one in there. Oh, one in. It's a real beauty. I'm asking what? I'm talking about what's coming to happen going forward. The building has been vacated. You're going to make substantial improvements. You're getting the building and making substantial improvements. You're going to shovel the snow. Yeah. And you're going to live in the house? No. You're not. So this is an investment problem. And a bathroom. Okay. It has been a five unit building all along. It has been a little bit sprankled. I bought it. That's a five-time thing. No, I'm just going to ensure that in fact, the records at ISD show it as a five family versus what the rental, the sale was. Yes. And there were six meters on the outside of the building. The question is, has the occupancy been put in front? Yes. Has it been put in front? Yes. And is listed as a five. Yes. It's been paying taxes as a five. Yes. Okay. I believe I have a tax bill here. Okay. I'll pay it. Okay. And it's his intention to resolve all of these issues with the community. Once we lowered the roof, it took a while for Mr. McGrath to get the drawings. And he had these at the site over the weekend and gave them out to a few of the, few of the neighbors. I'm sure their concerns, I mean, I was at this meeting at the site and there were a lot of concerns about the behavior of the people that lived there, none of whom are living in the property. Now, there were concerns about his lack of due diligence, which he has now learned his lesson about the snow. And sometimes he gives somebody a little money off on the rent and hope to tell him to shovel the sidewalk. And they don't do it. He knows he can't do that anymore. But this is a renovation of an existing condition. It's within a hundred yards of the entrance to the Ashmont T station. So, presumably everyone living there would be walking through the train and getting on the subway. Does he own any other rental property within the city of Boston? No. I have one in South Boston. Where? South Boston. Oh, sorry, Ellery Street. Part? Ellery Street in Under Square. Okay. And so given that information, any other questions from the board? May I have a motion, please? I'm approval. The R.A. Design. Second. All those in favor? Hi. Hi. Any opposed? And I strongly encourage you to keep the communication going with the abutters and to do the right thing. Thank you very much. It's now 1035. I'm going to go back to a couple of early occasions on the extensions. Is Cook Street here? Is Cook Street here? Madam Chair, 1035. Make a motion for denial without credit. All those in favor? Hi. Any opposed? Motion carries. Also calling the 1030 cases. Are there any deferrals or with darrals for 1030? George, address? I have a couple of minutes to portion. First address is 163E Street. Call the record. Calling B-O-A-573-870163-E Street. The other, George. We can do one at a time, if you like. Yes. Name an address for the record. I'm an English George, Marine, and Sam and Attorney for the Business and Address. There's a 350 West Broadway and cell boss and I withdraw this application. Can I have a motion? A motion for denial without credit. Second. All those in favor? Hi. Any opposed? Motion carries. The other address place. Number two is 482 West Broadway. For the record, calling B-O-A-6164-23482-West Broadway. Name an address for the record. George, Marine, and Sam and Attorney for the Business and Address. 350 West Broadway and Cell Boss and Madam Chair. Members, this is an article 80 small project. We originally believed it was going before the BRA board this month. Advised by our project manager that this is in fact going to the BRA board in October. The two requested deferral until the BRA has an opportunity to vote. Do you have a motion, please? Motion for the parole. Is there a second? Second. All those in favor? Hi. Any opposed? The date, please? George, we can't get until December 13th. 12th, 13th. Thank you. Number three is the portion 1824 Columbia Road. For the record, calling B-O-A-588115-1824 Columbia Road. Name an address for the record. George, Marine, and Attorney for the Business and Address. 350 West Broadway and Cell Boss and Madam Chair. Members of the board, I'm advised that this project requires additional community process. I was not involved in that process. I was retaining at a late date to present the case to this board. I became aware yesterday that the parties involved my client in the city would like to see this matter deferred so that they can be further communications with the abutters. Morning for the parole. There are second. All those in favor? Hi. Any opposed? The date, please? Again, 1213. 618-1130. Thank you. Are there any other deferrals or withdrawals for 1030? The deferral? The first one, 164-183. Exactly. It's been withdrawn. It's been denied. Okay. I'm sorry. Let's go back to the... No more deferrals or withdrawals. Okay. We go back to the 930 cases calling BOA 624-618-181-183. This is to change oxygen from a signed fabrication in warehouse to cabinet storage warehouse with incidental offices and retail showroom. The professional office includes fit-out and finishes. The violation is Article 65, Section 39 screening and buffering. Article 65, Section 41, Office for Repocking and Loader Requirements. Article 65, Section 41, Office for Repocking and Loader Requirements. And Article 65, Section 8, warehouse is a forbidden use. Article 65, Section 8, accessory retail use is a forbidden use. And Article 65, Section 9, accessory office is a forbidden use. Name and address for the record, please. I'm a consultant speaking on behalf of the owner. I'm here with Jennifer Haar in her husband, Matt Mueller. We're proposing to renovate the existing 18,000-square-foot warehouse. Completely renovated and adding a retail component, 4,000-square-foot. In addition to that, a professional tenancy base of 12-undert-square-feet. We've met with several of the neighborhood community folks. We were, the proposal was well-received. As a result of those meetings, we had fully detailed plans drawn up by Arthur Chu, the architect that you have before you. Please tell us about the off-street parking and loading of requirements. What is required and what are you proposing? We're proposing to keep the warehouse waiters. We're proposing an additional loading dock on the side of the building. We will, Mr. Haar is imports cabinets, kitchen cabinets from China. We plan on receiving one or possibly two deliveries per week at that loading dock. The rest of the, there'll be no other deliveries, except for a 40-foot container once a week. That will arrive early morning prior to any traffic. Early morning, but is there residential, are there residential uses around this property? It's a three F district, three family district? Yes, again, it's an existing warehouse. We're not changing the warehouse useful remain. We're just adding the retail component. That's true, you're, and when was the warehouse used last used? Was there any time frame when that use was not in place? The warehouse has been vacant in a dilapidated condition for many years, I think, as many as ten years. So, so then it is, you are also requesting the warehouse use because it's been out of, out of use for the past two years. Okay, so it's the warehouse use. It's the office and it is the retail use. All three of those, well two of the three are the forbid uses, okay? So, tell us about the off street parking and loading. So, the parking, there'll be eight parking spaces in the rear. The loading will occur on a proposed loading dock, which will be on the side of the building. So, there's only two deliveries maximum per week that will arrive early morning prior to traffic. There's no curb cuts planned. All the elements for deliveries are already existing. And we just need, we're just going to add the retail component. There's a very wide group out there now, right? Yes. There'll be no changes to the building whatsoever. So, the retail space, or we're not adding any stories. This will also provide an economic benefit to the immediate neighborhood. It'll provide 25 jobs and it'll remove a blighted property from the neighborhood. And how long has the applicant owned the property for? The applicant bought the property in January with no contingencies. Mr. Harris is a successful businessman in the community. He has many residential properties. He has an existing kitchen cabinet warehouse at 1124 Watt Dorchester Ave, which he operates. He's been operating for many years successfully. And what is the retail and proposed office use? What is the retail use? The retail use will just be for kitchen cabinets and showroom. Oh, I see. Okay. And the office for that too? There'll be incidental offices for the warehouse facility. And there'll be a separate tenant space for a professional office. We intend to work with the community on selecting what kind of tenant make a win there. Okay. So, the retail use is going to be accessory to the warehouse use. That's correct. Okay. And then the office will be its own use. Okay. How are the plans, Mr. Bazzani? The drugs are adequate. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the board, John Allison, from the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. On behalf of Flavio DeVega, we'd like to go on record and support. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Sean Chaiton, Councillor Andreid Campbell's office. We'd also like to go on record and support. Thank you. Is anybody in opposition to this proposal? Any other questions from the board? May I have a motion, please? Post-itual approval. Can we have extensive screening and buffering around the perimeter of the property, please? With a proposal for extensive screening and buffering around the property. With the R.A. Design review. All those in favour? Hi. Opposed? Motion carries. Those provisos. Thank you. Good luck. Calling VOA602517-862-870 Blue Hill Avenue. This is a change actually from a pizza shop at 36A in retail. Store it to a deli with takeout to a supermarket to be a happy supermarket. They are looking to install an on-premise sign on top of the building to display the name of the supermarket. The sign will be double-sided and illuminated internally. Violation to Article 66 and 39. Free standing sign is forbidden. Article 66 and 39. A free standing sign of height is excessive. An Article 66, Section 39. Free standing sign of square footage of the proposed free standing sign is excessive. Name and address for the record, please. Ethan Shaft, Turni Ethan Shaft, PO Box 149. Stoten, Massachusetts, O2072. Is it for anybody else at the table be speaking? Please put your name and address on the record. Name is Joseph Dittaro, 128 Lincoln Street, with people's architect. Thank you. Francesca Fernandez from Happy Supermarket, 860A Blue Hill Avenue and Dorchester Massages. Thank you. Will you be speaking to? No. Please tell us what's being proposed. This is almost a grandfather use. It was a sign there for 30 years. I tried desperately to negotiate with Clear Channel because it was no longer financially viable for them. And I begged them to leave the sign there. Almost maliciously. No, just all I want to know is about the sign because the sign is here for a supermarket. Is that right? So tell us about the supermarket sign. That's all that we are interested in. Yes, so what happened was there was a sign there they cut it down. What was the dimensions? What was the dimensions? Okay, so we're proposing a sign which is 7 feet and height times 20 feet. By 20 feet? Okay, and will it be illuminated? No. It will, it's not a digital sign but it will be. Okay, where on Blue Hill Avenue? What's the nearest cross street? Harvard. At Harvard, okay. Is it right where the big park is? Yes, yes, yes. Okay. Okay. And it will be for that, just for that use. Have you seen the BRA's recommendation? Well, can you please give this to the applicants? How are the plans for the design? I'm trying to add a quick, just for the record, what is the height from the ground to the top of the sign? You know, some of them are around the top. Roughly 3 feet from the ground to the top of the sign. Very, very good. Right. It says, it says, a regular billboard, but this is going to be a sign for the supermarket that's permanent as opposed to something that changes. No, there will be no other advertisers. What was there was constantly changing advertisements from people who didn't work in the neighborhood. This will be only advertising the supermarket which may mean the supermarket. That is it. It will say happy supermarket and nothing else. Is there going to be a sign on the building itself that identifies the store? This business has been there since then. When has this business been there since then? Yes, there is. So the market is there, it's existing and there's a sign on the market of red. So the original sign that was there has been removed just recently by Clear Channel. Okay. It was there signed, so they removed. Correct. So you need permission to build a new sign of lesser, but a new sign. You need to build a new sign. Well, it sounds to me that it might possibly be because that billboard had been there illegally. So basically we just need to look at this. Mr. Pazani, can you give us the dimensions of that sign, the height of the supporting beams or whatever it is? The height of the proper sign is 33 feet 9. 33 feet 9 inches, the height of the sign itself from that point working down is 7 foot. It is 20 feet in length. So why did the BRA recommend denial? Too big. The lane's up. Okay. Because it does sound like a that intersection. Something small on my work for you. Have you considered that? Well, what we're putting up is a hundred. I'm not asking about what was there before. I'm asking as far as signage for this business. Have you considered anything else? I'll let the architect address that. We could propose a smaller sign. We're just trying to take advantage of this structure that is there on top of the building and the vertical sculpture. Okay. I'll just restate my suspicion. My suspicion is that because all this is coming before us is that that billboard had been there, had not been adequately permitted. So we are starting essentially from scratch then. So somebody might need to relook at that and we think that as a business owner. Tell me if I'm wrong. From the pictures, it looks like the previous billboard was on top of the building where this is on the street or on the land essentially. No. No. It's going where the billboard was. And that's the thing. The footings were left there. When they came onto the roof, they wanted to rip it out of the roof and we said you'd be damaging the structure of the building so that what they agreed to, they came onto the roof and they sliced it off at the footings. So the reason the sign is this size is because we do not want to reinvent the wheel. It's going to go right back where the footings were because we can place it into the footings that are anchored into the roof. I would move the print of this so that we get the chance to come back. We look at the whole thing. Maybe talk to the BRA, figure out what would be acceptable. It may have a second place. All those in favor? Yes. I'm wondering if this could be approved with BRA Design Review. I mean, I think what, well, there's a motion on the table. There's a motion. There's a second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? I'm opposed. Motion carries. Can I get the doctor? I can speak. No, there's a motion. It's been seconded. That is our decision. I think that's the case. It allows you to come back with something else or something within a short period of time. Please have a discussion with one of the staff from the mayor's office of neighborhood services. I would like to know if the board was aware that the police chief had written a letter to the board in favor, that the neighborhood was very much in favor that we had in a butters meeting that was in favor. Thank you. All those in the record, okay? In the meantime, may we move on to the next case. Calling BOA 624-751-278-292, Blue Hill Avenue. This is changing the occupancy from 40 unit elderly apartments and for retail spaces to 40 unit elderly apartments, two retail spaces in clinic, a 2700 square foot tenant fit out at street level, a 278 Blue Hill Ab. Violations article 50 section 28, the use is conditional. Name and address for the record, please. Fredericka Williams, the CEO of Wittier Street Health Center. Jean Vetteria, Wittier Street Health Center. Roy Kason, the dream collaborative architect. The police tell us what's being proposed. We are proposing adding a medical and wellness center that would provide primary care services, mental health services and nutrition counseling, which is much needed in North Dorchester. Rox Combe, another health center went out of business in 2013, Wittier Street that has been in the community for 85 years won the federal grant to serve people in North Dorchester. And what we're trying to do in the senior housing is to use the space that was zoned for retail to add medical and wellness centers. And wellness services for the community. And it would be for the community at large, not just for the seniors in the building. For the community at large, we would serve people from all age spectrums, from PDR to exterior to ex. And so it's medical and wellness. And mental health and substance abuse counseling, similar to what we do in Wax Bay. Mental health and substance abuse. Counseling. And how large is the space? 2700 square feet. How many staff do you have in this way? Just a few, maybe three or four. We already serve 30,000 people in Wax Bay at a larger clinic. So this is just a way to be in a community that needs a lot of help. So how will the services be provided with only three or four staff? There will be a physician, a nurse, practitioner, a nurse. And then we'll probably have a couple of nutritionists. And there'll be a lot of health education. We'll be educating the people in the building and in the community. And then what we plan to do is to use a shuttle service where we'll shuttle people from the site to our main clinic. We will be shortening five times a day. And we also, a lot of the people that will be coming to the clinic are within walk and distance. So it's a tiny space. Where the current occupants of the elderly apartments, where does they go over healthcare services now? They have a choice to go to wherever they're going right now or to choose us. Many of the people come to Widia because we have 30,000 people. And how do we get there now? The shuttle doesn't exist now? No, we have two shuttles that runs through the city all through the day. And who's the owner of these elderly apartments? New-ass truck community dad. New-ass truck. How are the plans, Mr. Pazani? Drawing sure adequate. Any questions from the board? Does anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the board, Joshua McFan out of the mayor's office, Napoli Services. We'd like to go and record this project. Representatives from elected officials? Madam Chair, members of the board, Alana Olson for Councillor Asavi George. We'd like to go and record in support. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board, Michelle Sadler for Councillor Jackson's office. We'd like to go and record in support of the project. Thank you. Good morning, Madam Chair, women and members of the board. My name is Dumal Afonta, Director for Lower Oxford College. We would like to go and record in support. Thank you. Is anybody here in opposition? Okay. Given the fact that this is a forbidden use in a local convenience district, I'm wondering if it makes sense if we decide to approve this to limited this, this, this petitioner only. May I have a motion, please? Motion to approve. This is your own. Is there a second? Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries with that, Proviso. Calling the OA612108197 to 203 Humboldt Avenue. This is a change legal acting from two stores, one with takeout, food 36A, to a restaurant 36A store, and store with pharmacy in church. Just a quick question for the staff in the back of the room. At what point would you need a break? What point would you need a break? Another 20 minutes. Okay. Violations, Article 50, Section 28. Restaurant is conditional. Article 50, Section 28, takeout is conditional. Name an address to the record, please. I go to Virginia, 197 Humboldt Avenue. Hi. William Tampania. 177 Humboldt. Tell us what's being proposed. Yes, mine, he was kind of proud, and I address 45 follow-all Avenue, and I am the architect for the project. We're simply changing the occupancy from two stores, which existed for a while. a while. However, what has happened is that the church has been has been occupying one of the stores for a number of years. An existing store has been there for a number of years as well. And also the other store has been there for a number of years, but it's now operating as a pharmacy, which is really needed in the neighborhood. The new construction really revolves around the restaurant, which is going to be a takeout restaurant with nine seats. We've gone before the health department and they have approved the plans. We also have support letters from a buttersweet like to submit to the board. Please explain it. Are there four storefronts and one of them is going to be requesting a takeout? Is that what it is? Yes, the storefront. Four storefronts, the storefront on the far right is vacant and that's proposed for the restaurant. What is the name of the proposed restaurant? The name is going to be townhouse-a-pizza. Townhouse-pizza, okay, and do you have previous experience with takeout? Yes. In Boston? Yes. Where? I was over on Dorchester Avenue at the previous high five pizza. Okay. How are the plans Mr. Pesani? Drugs are adequate. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the board, Josh Lentfad, and Mary's office, and they will have services like to go and make it a support of this project. Madam Chair, members of the board, Alana Olsen, for Councillor Anisa Savi George, we'd like to go and record and support. Madam Chair, members of the board, Michelle Sadler, for Council Jackson's office, we'd like to go and record and support. Thank you. Is anybody here in opposition? May I have a motion please? Motion approval of the area designer view for exterior. All those in favor? Aye. Any takeout language? All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries with that provides. Have a good luck. Thank you. Calling BOA 619-578-45 Hawthlorn Street. This is a subdivide and existing parcel into two parcels. Lauday will contain 9,089 square feet and Laudby with an existing two family dwelling on it will contain 6,820 square feet. This is to erect a new three-story family townhouse building on Lauday. There will be off-street parking located at grade and beneath the townhouse. The violation of the Article 50 section 43, off-street parking, location, design, maneuverability, and vehicle access. So our street parking for a new townhouse located through 41 Hawthlorn Street. Article 50 section 44.2, a conformity with an existing building alignment. Name and address for the record please. Scotland Willis 41 Hawthlorn Street. Please tell us what's being proposed. Madam Chair, members of the board, thank you so much for hearing today. We are proposing a three family and actually the the erection is horizontal versus vertical. So there wouldn't be any height violation issues. There are with regards to the violations we're proposing the three family. There are three issues that come up and one was the existing the modal setbacks. When you look at Hawthlorn Street actually the I do have some diagrams with me. There is no modal setback for Hawthlorn Street. We have a two foot, just give me a second here. 41 Hawthlorn sits 42 feet from this street. 33 to 39 Hawthlorn sits 5 feet back, 29, sits 13 feet back, 25, sits 34 feet back, and 15 to 21 sit 38 feet back. The structure actually is within the guidelines of the we're proposing that the proposing that we get relief for the issue of 49 maneuverability as we'll be creating an issue. Tell us about the building alignment. What are you proposing as your? Because because there's. Yes, my apologies. The depth is within zoning it's 25 feet. Let me just double check that. So zoning requires 25. Right and we're within 25 actually. So there's actually no zoning. So the proposal or statement is that there's actually we believe it was an oversight on ISD that there's no actual violation. So then speak to us about the parking because it's location, design, and maneuverability. Right and the parking may I give this to the secretary? So if you look at the drawings between the same there. If you look at the drawings, there'll be an easement on the property between 41 and 45 Hawthlorn and which will allow a passage for vehicles and there's two parking spaces for the second unit, two parking spaces for the third unit, one parking space for the first unit. I'm talking to quick, please tell me again. Oh, I'm sorry. The first unit has one parking space. The second and third unit have two parking spaces each. And because there'll be an easement on the property. Yes. maneuverability will be. But hold on, tell us about 41. Will they be having adequate parking on their property? Yes. Because they are units? Yes, actually we are the owners. My mother and I are. My mother is the owner of 41 and we're doing this project together. But we understand that. But we know that the relief being granted goes with the property and not with the owner. Yes. So we just want to make sure that that in the future. We still have parking. Yes, we do. So tell us what are you parking in the front yard? Where are you parking that triggers these violations? The parking will be in the rear of the unit and one at the front. And there are 25 feet at the front. There's 32 feet, 11 inches in the back. So is there anything you can do about that front parking spot? In terms of. Relocating it. We are not predisposed to approving front yard parking. Okay. The way the current configuration is, no, we could actually allocate one of the two parking spaces to that resident if necessary, if that would make the board happy. Well, what is the required number of parking spaces? Is it one per dwelling unit? Yes, it's one per unit. Mr. Bazzani, you're on the plans. The lines are adequate. You show five parking spaces that the women drive. Yes. And so if you're asking to have the sixth space. At the rear of the unit there. At 41. And it seemed like when I was speaking with the BRA as well and I didn't make me with the BRA about a week and a half ago. It was more around maneuverability as opposed to parking allotment. What could you describe when you say it's in front of the building? Yes. Is it in front along the side of the front of the building or is it along the side of the building? It's along the side of the building. Yes. So as you enter the driveway, it goes from front to back. The property length is approximately probably about 105 feet. So is that drive with an access to the spot in the back of the building? Yes it is. So you can't park in the side of that driveway and then still access the parking space of the back. You can access the back only by parking in the back. So you take the driveway to the back. Is that your question? No. Okay. Gather exactly where in the front of the building the parking space is that you're talking about. Is it adjacent then to the driveway? So it's actually in front of the building? Yes. The front of the car will be in the front of the car. About the driveway. The front of the car will be perpendicular? Yes. In the front of the building? The parking on the front would be perpendicular to the driveway adjacent to the front of the development. So there's if you can... I'm sorry to get at it. Okay. There's a big difference about how front yard parking is. I'm not sure you actually have front yard parking. That's what I'm trying to find. Well so the front yard parking would be adjacent? Is this a corner line? No. Actually it's not. Well it's kind of awkward if I may describe it to you. There are three streets that intersect. Two streets that intersect but it brings one street down from one way and then the corner. It's an awkward corner but it's very open area. Is anybody here to speak and support of this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the board, Joshua McFadden, Mary's office and neighborhood services. We are in support of this proposal. We actually had an above this meeting on site and we also did present in front of the neighborhood association and everything went well. So we are in support of this project. Madam Chair, members of the board, Michelle Sathil for Councillor Jackson's office. We'd like to go and recommend support of the project. Go ahead. Holly Shepard, 33 Haathorne Street. I'm a butter and a member of the neighborhood committee and we were happy with the development. We were happy with the environmental, the housing use of space and we also were happy with the parking situation and that it removed the street, the parking from the, you know, street street skate. Thank you. Thank you. Is anybody here in opposition? Any clarification there? Well, you have a question. Where? Fort Thorn Street. Where our street comes into Fort Thorn. Right. That's, is an apex to your law. Correct. And you're proposing that the parking spot go at that point or is it in fact in the rear? That either would be or could be an option. What are you proposing? We'd like to propose that it be in the rear. It has access to, you know, that gives access to the unit at 41 as well. Well, it's a big problem to have it in the front. So maybe you told us that it was going to be all of it would be in the rear so it was on the record. Yes. We will put the parking in the rear. So maybe we didn't need to see us at all if that's the conclusion. That's, that's quite possible. Well, isn't there another issue though? And that is that an ought to be to get to the parking that is right under. And crossing over the other lot, you know, there's a lot A and a lot B. Right. The building that you're proposing is you call it lot A. Right. The existing building is on lot B. Correct. The driveway would seem to have split both of those. And we would offer an easement as part of the development process. So we actually are in conversation with our attorneys now to propose. And that's why I submitted the drawing of the larger drawing there. We would establish an easement to ensure that both parties had access to the driveway. It hasn't been registered yet. Not well, that was pending the hearing here. If we, if we successfully get through the ZBA, then it makes sense to do the partition. Okay. May I have a motion, please? Motion approval with the B. I resign. And the provider that does no parking in the park here. And no parking. All those in favor? Aye. Any imposed motion carries? We're all set with that. Thank you, Madam Chair and Board Members. And I appreciate your help. Calling B.O.A. 625-839-14 to 14 A McBride Street. There was also a companion case B.O.A. 625-847-16 to 16 A McBride Street. This is for 14 to 14 A McBride Street. This is a subdivide lot to 3,018 square feet in a wreck two townhouses with five. The violation is Article 55 Section 9. Minimum lot size required to erect a dwelling unit is insufficient. Article 55 Section 9. Additional lot area for additional dwelling unit is insufficient. Article 55 Section 9, Floyd Air Ratio is excessive. Article 55 Section 9, minimum front yard requirement required is insufficient. Article 55 Section 9, minimum side yard required is insufficient. And Article 55 Section 9, minimum rear yard requirement is insufficient. This is for 16 to 16 A McBride Street. This is to erect two townhouses for two families on 16 McBride Puzzle with garage parking. Violations Article 55 Section 9. Minimum lot size required to erect a semi-attached two dwelling unit is insufficient. Article 55 Section 9, lot area for additional unit is insufficient. Article 55 Section 9, Floyd Air Ratio is excessive. Article 55 Section 9, minimum front yard setback required is insufficient. Article 55 Section 9, minimum side yard setback required is insufficient. And Article 55 Section 9, minimum rear yard setback required is insufficient. Name an address for the record please. Madam Chairman, so the board, John Moran, Alpine Advisory Services, joining me is the developers, Stephen Bayless, to my right, and the architect, Dr. Stefano, to my left. We seek dimensional relief. The modern question is approximately 5,900 square feet. I'm sorry, please speak up 5,000 now. 900 square feet. Okay. Approximately we proposed in a 3F 5000 district. We are proposing subdividing the lot and building on the subdivision two dwelling units with two garage parking spaces per unit. Lot 14, 14A would have 2881 square feet. In lot 16, 16A would have 3,018 square feet. We are cited for the front yard violation. The code requires 15 feet frontage. We are proposing. Please, can you please backtrack. What could you build as of right on this 15, 5,900 square foot lot? Three units. You could build three families. Yes, it's a 3F 5000. We have 5,900 square feet. Okay. The plan before the board is a result of extensive community involvement starting last April. We are cited for insufficient front yard. The code requires 15. We are proposing 6.8. The model setback is 10 on the street. The side yard requirement is 17. We are providing 7. The rear yard requirement is 20. For 14, we are providing 10 feet setback. For 16, we are providing 14 feet setback. Each unit size would be 1,695 square feet with three bedrooms in two garage parking spaces. Sorry, so 1695 will be three bedrooms? All of them will be three bedrooms. All four units are three bedrooms. All are the same size. All have two garage parking spaces. Julianne Guardi coordinated a very extensive community process, which resulted in this plan. The Jamaica Plain Neighborhood Council's owning subcommittee voted to support the program and the project. I have submitted three letters of support from immediate abutters. I must have missed what you had talked about when you talked about the FAR and height. What is required? FAR is 0.6. We are proposing 1.24. High is 35 and the project is 30 feet. There is no height violation. Okay. And to the parking requirement, you are not meeting the parking requirement. What is the parking requirement? One per unit. We are in excess. One per unit? Yes. Okay. It's trying to orient myself. Is it the parking lot across the James K. restaurant? That's what the president thought. Yes. Yes. The mobile happened with the parking that has been there for the restaurant. The James K. site is under a community process for development. As not as a commercial use. It's residential. As a residential use. Okay. Okay. How are the plans, Mr. Designee? The garage are out of work. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Good morning, Madam Chairman. This is the board, Julie Andority. Mayor Zoxin, the neighborhood services. At this time, we would like to go and recommend support of this application. The community process was a lengthy one. And we fully understand that there will be ongoing conversations regarding the parcels. And we're fully confident that those discussions and commitments have been fruitful. Madam Chair, members of the board, my name is Andrew Bell. Designed from the Office of City Councilor Madom Alley. We'd like to go and record and support this proposal. Madam Chair, members of the board, Paul Sullivan. On behalf of this councilor, I pledge Michael Flarady. Councilor Kiyloen, record and support. If anybody here in opposition. Is just a curiosity, it's the same developer. Do you have a game skate? There, it's a similar developer. Different investors and a different ownership. But Stephen Balles is the point person on both projects. Okay. Okay, may I have a motion please? Motion for approval with continuing the RA design. The view for 14, for June, around 16 to 16, right? All those in favor? Any opposed? Motion carries. The board is going to take a break for the five minutes and we'll be back in session at 11.25. Welcome the board of appeal for Tuesday September 27th is back in session. Just a reminder, please make sure your cell phones are off and all conversations are taken outside of the room. Just remember if you're here to speak either in support or in opposition to a project, put your name and address on the record. And we are interested in hearing new information. So if somebody has already stated your concern, please just put your name and address on the record. Also, we are cognizant of the fact that all these projects have been through a community process. The BRA also submits their recommendations, but they're all advisory, everything is advisory. Finally, in conformance with the open meeting law, this meeting is being live streamed. Okay, next case. Calling, next couple of cases or the 930 hearings, calling BOA 603-772-201-205 South-Edenknav. This is companion case BOA 603-775-221-Salt-Edenknav. This is for 201-205-Salt-Edenknav. This is renovation and expansion of an existing Guarded House building for multi-family use, comprising approximately 109 dwelling units, resident amenity spaces, and accessory parking. The violations article 29 section 4, the Green Belt Protection Overlay District Applicability. This is for 221-Salt-Edenknav. Construction of a new multi-family residential building, comprising approximately 58 dwelling units, resident amenity spaces, and accessory parking. The violations article 29 section 4, groundwater protection overlay district Applicability. Name and address for the record, please. Yes, Green Belt Protection Overlay District. Was that? Yes. Thank you. Yes. So the only violations in both these case are the new parts. Yes, that's correct. Madam Chair, that's correct. Yes, my name is Matt Keifer. My address is 7 Serena Road in Jamaica Plain, and I'm here. I'm an attorney at Gulston and Stores here to represent the project proponent, which is a joint venture of Eden Properties and Samuels and Associates. And with me here at the table is Noah Maslin from Eden Properties and Peter Sugar Redis from Samuels and Associates. There are also other members of the project team here. Should the board have questions? I'd like to give a brief introduction. David Chilinski, the project architect, will give a very brief design overview. And then I'd like to address how we've met the GPUD standard for these companion approvals. The last question is Jamaica Way? It's the Jamaica Way GPUD correct, which is 500 feet back from the center line of the Jamaica Way. So it encompasses almost all the sites. It's approximately a two acre site. It's one zoning lot, but two companion appeals. One for the rehab of the existing building, a building built in 1926, and one for a new building that's in a current parking lot. It's all going to be one integrated development, converting a former assisted living residence, Goddard House, which closed in 2012 to apartments to approximately 167 apartments. We began this process about two years ago with I would call it a listening tour. Before we filed anything, we spent a good six months speaking to a butters and yes. May I ask please that we get to the core of the issue and the design and everything? Only because we are still on 9.30 cases, we haven't given a hit 10.30 yet, and it's 11.30. I'm just going to let him chair. I'll abbreviate that. I know there are people here who want to speak too, so I'll let them cover the community process. If I sit to say we did extensive outreach and we were guided by a couple things that I want to mention because they're relevant to the standard for zoning relief. This neighborhood is gradually transitioning from institutional use to residential use. We had the benefit of two projects that went before us that this board approved. And we also had the benefit of a planning study that the BRA did that resulted in South Huntington Avenue corridor guidelines. And so we took those to heart from the very beginning. We took those guidelines as de facto zoning. And we also took as a guiding principle that we were going to find a way to retain the existing building, which turns out to be a little challenging, but we figured that out. And then the third thing was to provide a view corridor to the park, which was something in our listening tour was very important to people. So we believe we've done those things. We're going to see a design in a minute that addresses each of those points. Those guidelines have since been turned into zoning, and we conform to the zoning in every respect. Use, dimensional requirements, in every respect we conform to zoning. The only reason we're here in front of you today is because we're in that G-Pod, the Greenbelt Protection Overlay District. And we've spent some time thinking about that and designing to the standards of that G-Pod. We've been approved already by the BRA board and have had an advisory review with the parks department focused on those G-Pod issues. Tell us what has transpired with the parks department? Well, we will be in front of them for direct. They have direct review because it's within 100 feet of the parkway. So, so far we've had advisory review in January. We went in front of the parks commission and we've met twice with parks staff. And should this board see if it to approve us today? Our next stop would be to file at the parks department for their direct approval. So with that, I'd like to turn it over to David Chilinski and then I'll do a very brief summation. Thank you. I'm David Chilinski with Proletz Chilinski Associates Cambridge. I think you can hear me. I'm going to just quickly walk you through the boards. This gives you a sense of where we are. The site is... Let me know the site. So please if you could go into the details. Perfect. So if you look at the basis site plan, there are sort of two elements of the project is that describe a new building by story building here off of South Huntington. There is the renovation of Goddard which also includes two small additions of which make scale of a building actually usable from all the family housing and actually provide the structural racing for the existing structure. The parking essentially for this site uses the three co-cuts that are existing there today. We retain the existing building and the drop off that's there today. We add some parking that's underneath one of the additions not visible from the street. This currently today is the parking lot and we keep the basic idea of the ramp that comes down and it has parking that's below this building. Essentially this parking lot again is not visible from the street. The parking lot is visible from the Jamaica way. The parking lots are a lot of show you an elevation in a second. There is a 30 foot rate change between South Huntington and the J way and along the here there's actually a very rough rock heart plumbing that's probably a $20 pounds you're going to see which the combination of those two things really make it impossible to see the cars. So in the answer to your question the parking is at the lowest level of this building. The way is here and this is that rock of gropping so it's really not visible. We've taken the license to actually fade the trees back here. I think you can sense from being aware of that area when those trees are. It's very actually difficult to see a garden house. It will be difficult to see these new additions that we're going to do. We took them off because we have wind turbine and you know you're are going to see these buildings in the winter time but I think again you can see here that this rock of gropping and elevation change that that parking is not visible from the Jamaica way. One thing I would also point out our landscape group has been working diligently. Part of the zoning is a 45 foot setback. We've created the zone. First of all we get a tree survey. We've looked at all the trees that are on site. Identified ones that are actually based on species that might are some across the path. You can see that the new building there's a few trees that are removed. This is a planting plant. I hope you can see it up there. The dark green are existing vegetation. The lighter green are trees and various shrubs that are part of our additional planting program. I'd like to point out that one of the guidelines in place was the notion of not having a complete building but actually have a viewpour and I think you can see we've done that successfully by keeping the new building pulled away from the gotter house which allows the viewpour to park. You know in the interest of the time I'm happy to talk more about that's generally good. Thank you. How are the plans Mr. Bazzani? I'm going to read it. Any questions from the board? Does anybody here to speak and support of this proposal? Good morning Madam Chair. Members of the board, Julie Endority, Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. We would like to go record of support of this application. The applicant and their team went through an extensive and lengthy robust community process through the entire start to finish even before the file at our recommendation. The community is very much in support and happy with the keeping of the historic building as well as associated parking and open space improvements specifically the tree and landscape plan for the project. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Andrew Balvezon from the Office of District 6 City Councilor Maddo Malik, look from going record and support this proposal. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Alana Olson, for Councilor at Largenese, so I'll be George. We'd like to go on record and support of this project too. Madam Chair, members of the board, Paul Sullivan, we have City Councilor at LaJunica Flarey, Councilor at Gohan Records, support. Madam Chair, members of the board, Phil Cohen from the Boston Planning and Development Agency formally known as the VRA. For those of you who don't know, we changed our name to reflect some of the work that we've been doing upstairs and also to emphasize our new, or not new, but the focus on planning that we have. So I just wanted briefly mention that this is one of those areas that have been recently planned and re-zoned. Now we were really grateful during the process that the development team came in wanting no zoning variances and really adhering to the plan of the conditional use permit from the G-Bud. This had to go through article 80? It did. Okay. So when through article 80, they had a rigorous community process, including a voluntary impact advisory group at the Abundant Mount Pleasant Homes before even filing a presentation form. Once they did file, they went out to the community. It was clear to me that the main concern from the community were maintaining the existing Goddard House, having view corridors from South Huntington, Titches and Makeaway, and also having affordability on site. And we were very impressed that they were able to do all three. They kept a view corridor, they maintained the existing Goddard House, which I've been told by our architects was a difficult feat. And they also voluntarily included 13% of the units on site as affordable units, inclusion in development units, even though they didn't need to, which I think sets a very important precedent for the neighborhood, for the city as a whole, as we rezone the city, as projects go through the process as of right. It is still just as important to have affordable units, to have an inclusive city. So I really want to commend them for doing that. On March 17th, our board voted unanimously, unanimously to support this project. So I'm here to support as well. Thank you. Anybody else to speak in support? Hi, yes. I'm Greg Gail, our Executive Director of the Boston Preservation Alliance at 141 Cambridge Street, whereas Citywide Nonprofit that advocates for protection and adaptive reuse of historic elements of the city. And I testify today representing 40 organizations in 93 court members of our organization. We've been in discussion and concerned about this site since early 2013, starting with the previous owner. And our goal was to find a solution to saving this unique but challenging historic building, which is the centerpiece of the project that's before you today. And an important part of the historic institutional streetscape was South Huntington. The city heated our concerns in a planning process for South Huntington and emphasized the protection and saving of the historic building was a priority. And we were pleased when this project team came forward. We've been in dialogue with them and they've considered and welcomed our many comments. And it been inclusive in their planning process. One of my staff members was a member of the IAG. So the preservation alliances here before you today to effectively support the project and that's for your support as well. Thank you. And chair members of the board of minor fetters representing the Carpenters Union, would I go and revel as part of the practice? Top of the morning Bill Chavelle, 241 Perkins Street in Jamaica Plain, just the JP resident. I've watched the process. This developers work very hard to satisfy people. I support it. And I'm chairman members of the board. My name is Mary Hakeem representing the Emerald Necklace Conservancy. We participated in the IAG process. And our greatest area of concern was development adjacent to and along the Jamaica way and across from Homestead Park. We expressed our concerns to the development team and were very pleased and welcomed their creation of a tree preservation zone along the Jamaica way, which has alleviated a lot of our concerns. We're also grateful for the support that they have provided to the Conservancy and therefore to the Emerald Necklace as a whole. Thank you. Yes, the morning is Steve Luisa here. A member of the zoning committee to make a plain 12 years. I also sat on the IAG, lengthy IAG, and it was a very respectful thorough process. And I'm in support of the project. Thank you. Madam Chairman members of the board, my name is Peter Gory. I'm with new mark, Rob Knight, Frank located at 225 Franklin Street in Boston, Mass. Real estate advisor for Goddard House, the current owner of the building, and would like to read a letter from Goddard House into the record. So can you please highlight the points? I'm happy. I'm happy. And you can put the letter in the record. Happy to. Quick background. Goddard House was found in 1949 as the commonwealth's first nonprofit home for elders. Due to federal changes, excuse me, and federal and state requirements for skilled nursing facilities, we closed the building in 2012, September of 2012, that's four years ago. At that time, we made it known to the city of Boston, the RA, the mayor's office at the time, the administration, elected officials, and our neighbors that we intended to put the property up for sale. Beginning in that, at that time, we also sat actively in the South Huntington Court or planning study public meetings of which by anyone's count included four public meetings, one BRA meeting for using development guidelines, two public meetings relative to the zoning, zoning commission, four parks commission hearings, and at least one public meeting for this project itself along with I.G. meetings as was stated earlier, we conducted at the Mount Pleasant Home. As the disposition process moved forward, our board of trustees and consultants closely monitored the rezoning effort and selected a proven development team with deep ties and experienced to Boston and Jamaica Plain in particular, a joint venture of Eden properties and Samuel's associates. I'll reach preceding the sale or offering to sale included that to the Boston Preservation Alliance, which you heard about previously, which confirmed one of the key tenants of our process that the building should be adapted and preserved to the greatest extent possible since it was designed by Shepley-Bulfench in the 1920s. Eden proposed a residential development that is consistent with the publicly vetted and comprehensive use and development guidelines for the self hunting to court or and is consistent with our message to the marketplace regarding adaptive reuse of the existing building. Through its nearly 20-month process, Eden's has gained speed and excuse me in Samuels have gained support of the Jamaica Plain, Neighborhood Council, Jamaica Plain, Jamaica Pond Association, Ponce, I Neighborhood, Boston Preservation Alliance, Emerald Necklace Conservancy, the BRA Board, and the I.A.G. We urge you to take affirmative action today and granting Eden and Samuels relief under the Greenbelt Protection Overlay District so that we make close on our transaction and redeploy these much needed resources after four-year process to helping the overall Boston. Thank you, Olson. Thank you. Has anybody had to speak in opposition? Good morning, Madam Chairman and Members of the Board. My name is Kathy Seaman. I'm the current Executive Director of Mount Pleasant Home. We are the Abutter on the south side. We are a non-profit rest home for elders, 62 and older. We have 60 residents, 50 of which who are very low income, meeting 30% of the area median income. We are overseen by a nine-member board, volunteer board of trustees. Can you please just tell us directly what you're concerned? Yes, sir, because I think we are very well aware of your program. Okay. I attended the JPMDC Zoning Committee regarding the G-Pod and I've worked my concerns that time and I'm here to voice them again. As I understand it, the G-Pod purpose is to preserve and enhance air quality, vegetation, open space, et cetera. But in fact, it removes these current amenities from my residents. The building, the new building proposed, it's on our property line, and towers over it. Five stories to our three stories. What's interesting about this is I was not the executive director during the planning process, so I've come to the table late admittedly, but I just want to make sure that my opposition is heard. It has already affected our marketability and continues to do so. I've had potential resident families come for tours and refuse to be placed in one of the 13 bedrooms that are up against the five-story facade. My board is a small non-profit board. I have four members here with me today. During the project planning, they did not fully understand the impact to our building and to our residents and to the G-Pod, but they do now. And I'm just here to state that I'm an opposition of the G-Pod of appeal and I have a letter to submit to the record. Thank you. Thank you. Well, we'll take that. Madam Chair and board, I am Ursula Ellis. I am the chairman of the board of trustees of Mount Pleasanton. I live at 16 Ohmsted Street in Jamaica Plain. I would like to say that our board is late to this. As Kathy mentioned, we are unanimously opposed to this project that the new building that will affect the lives of these vulnerable members of our community at Mount Pleasanton. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, I'm in members of the board. I am also a member of the board of trustees for the Mount Pleasanton. My name is Susan McDermott. I live at 49 Ohmsted Street in Jamaica Plain. And I echo the concerns of my executive director and my colleague, Krill Ellis. The new building proposed is merely 10 feet from our property and it will tower above 13 of our 60 bedrooms. That is 20% fully of the residents of our home and the value, one of the most awesome values of the home for our residents is its location on the green space. So we are here to oppose the plan as described on behalf of our residents. Thank you. My name is Karen Ridgley. I live at 700 Parkes Street in Roxbury and I'm a member of the Mount Pleasanton board of directors and I echo all of the concerns here. Thank you. My name is Ann Masterson. I live at 53 Mass Head Drive in Noelle Mass. I too am a member of the board of directors of Mount Pleasanton. And I'm here to echo everything that you've heard already but I'd also like to add I'm a licensed nursing home administrator in the state of Massachusetts and have been for over 30 years. And one of the things that I find so precious about what we do at Mount Pleasanton is that we provide an exceptional quality of life with very frail low income seniors. And I am fearful for the development of this property that it will have an impact on our ability to continue what we do. Two things that I'm concerned about. I'm concerned about the impact the property might have on the quality of life of our residents. And then secondly, as Ms. Siemens mentioned, I'm concerned about our ability to continue to rent our units. And as she said, we had something last week where a family member did not want to rent a unit because she was concerned about the development next door. We really live in a world where we have a very low margin and every rented unit counts for us. So I just want to voice my opposition to this project and be really in defense of the frail seniors who live in the community. Thank you. Okay, may I have a motion please? Madam Chair, I'm happy to briefly respond if that would be appropriate. I would just like to remind everybody that the only issue before us is the GPAR. So we clearly understand that. So may I have a motion please? Motion to grant a leisure question. Is it with BRA design review or not? Yes. Okay. So with that, provides us. Second, all those in favor? Aye. Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries with that, Proviso. Thank you very much. Calling BOA 618-342-46 dentistry. There is a companion case BOA 618-341-468 dentistry. This is one of two buildings on one lot. Violations Article 50 Section 29, Fludier ratio is excessive. Article 50 Section 29, usable open spaces insufficient. Article 50 Section 44, two dwellings on the same lot. Article 50 Section 44, two main buildings on the same lot. This is for 46A dentistry. This is to change arguably from a garage to a one-family home with structural renovations. The violation of the Article 50 Section 29, a lot of area for additional dwelling unit is insufficient. Article 50 Section 29, Fludier ratio is excessive. Article 50 Section 29, usable open spaces insufficient. Article 50 Section 44, two more dwellings on the same lot. And Article 50 Section 44, two more main buildings on one lot. Name and address for the record please. All in area 46 dentistry. Hi, my name is Howard Baker. I'm the architect working on this project. So please tell us what's being proposed. Well, we have a corner lot that has a three family on the front of it and an existing carriage house garage on the back of it. We would like to make that carriage us into a single family. We're keeping the same footprint. It has said that says a problem, but we're keeping the same footprint. The only difference that we're doing to the building is lifting up. Because currently it's a very steep roof. So we're adding 500 square feet to the total square foot of the structure. The total FAR is still under the allowable FAR. So we're not adding FAR. Has it already been converted to a unit? It has in the past before my client bought the property. And then they found out it was illegal. And they took out the kitchen, the bathroom. It's currently being unused. It's currently being an I-sort to the block. The whole block is currently being developed or renovated. And this is the last little structure in the back that's sort of an I-sort. And it's not being used at all by the tenant. So there's insufficient lot area for the... So you already have three family building on it. Correct. You're proposing an additional unit. So there's an insufficient lot area. There's excessive FAR. So can you respond to both of those? Well, this insufficient lot area is correct. Because it's a three family and we're adding a fourth. But the FAR should be... We're not passing our FAR. The FAR... Allowable FAR is 4164th-terty. And with the additional proposed area that we're adding, it should be just under that 4158. The zoning district is 3F 5000. Correct. Don't know if you've seen the BRA recommendation that I will send that to you. Has this particular part still been before this board before? Not that I know of or not that the client knows of. Okay. Okay. Three family and anything. Nothing to do with the three family was in front of the board. There's a three family and 42 dentistry on the neighbor. Not on this property. It's two different properties. Okay. Did you come to the board for a three family and you went... No. They bought the three family as it is. They just did a renovation. Interior updates. I feel like that's it. Okay. Tell us about the parking on this property. How is it working? There's two parking lots on both sides from the two side streets. Currently, one of them has a curb cut. One of them does not. The one that has a curb cut actually fits four cars as it is. But if they need to add another curb cut on the other side, they're unwilling to do that as well. Spasani, can you please help out how are the plans? Yes. Because it is a corner of life, there is parking shown on both streets. The problem is that the existing parking is for four vehicles, which means the two are the mccando. Because it can only fit three across. The new proposed parking should in fact be front yard parking. Yes, it will be a front yard parking. Hold on. Be front yard because the face of the building is actually on wood bills. Correct. So there will be three front yard parking and one of the cash. Okay. Any questions from the board? How old is the carriage after the heavily? We don't know. It's pretty old. It has a stone foundation. We looked in. It's we we couldn't find. Excuse me? So we couldn't find. The problem is the distribution. It's a disrepair. It has some historic significance in the neighborhood. Right? Yes. And if we don't allow this to happen, then it's what's going to happen? Nothing. It will get into more disrepair. Isn't there an article demolition by neglect? Excuse me. You don't simply allow a property to disrepair. I mean, and there's other users for that to garage that carriage house like parking or something else. Well, actually, the way it is now, it's not a garage at all. It's been converted into a unit, but it's not being used as one. There's no garage doors on it. There's no way to park a car in there. There are no cars in there. Any other questions from the board? How long has it been going on in there? We don't know because the owner only owns it for two years, and they immediately took it apart. The curiosity is too. Is anybody here to speak and support of this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the board, Joshua McFad, and the mayor's office of the neighborhood services. We'd like to go and record and support this project. Excuse me. Could you have the neighborhood meetings? Yes, I believe so. I want to say a while ago, actually just inherit this proposal here, but there definitely was, I believe, on site from some of the others. Other than the others meeting. I can definitely get the logistics on that, but I'm pretty sure with their predecessor. Did that? Yes. You worked with DSS? And she briefed me on this and said that it was a go and everything went well and are in with the abutters as well. I think Indigenous are presented in front of a neighborhood association as well. I think on this. Okay. Thank you. Is anybody here else to speak and support? Is anybody here in opposition? Okay, may I have a motion, please? I move approval. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Thank you very much. I'm going to call the 1030 cases. Are there any other deferrals for 1030? We have the RA design review on that. Who made the motion? I made the motion. Is there a second who seconded? Okay. So the, and everybody else doesn't support that. Yes. Please can you get those the applicants and remind them that they have designed with you? Addressor just. 161 Cottage Street. For the record calling VOA 618-075-161 Cottage Street. Name and address for the record. Good morning Madam Chair, members of the Board. Richard Lynn's 1216, Venison Street. He's boss. Then we have the decision. Requesting a brief deferral. We had a meeting this past weekend with the directive butters attached to our building. There are a number of issues they've asked us to identify and address. We're happy to do that. We need a additional time to do so. Make a motion for deferral. Second. Change occupancy from what to what? So 8 unit to a 9 unit building with a vertical addition. So does the motion is our second? All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed the date please? You have a date of December 6th at 1130. Thank you very much. Are there 1130 cases? Are there any deferrals or withdrawals for 1130? Address please? Okay, we're sure. And 55? Yes sir. For the record calling B-O-A-577-85853 Sturbridge Street, companion case B-O-A577-851-55 Sturbridge Street. Name and address for the record please. Patrick Foley, 308, Victory Road, Quincy. And what are your questions? A deferral. I know it's the second time that we've requested this. The first one is due to our inability to meet with the neighborhood group. And then it pushed us out July here and back. Should we finally met with them? We had to meet with the E-Mord and then we had to meet with the General Assembly. Should we met with the E-Mord three weeks ago? We met with the General Group last week. And after meeting with them and hearing their concerns, there's a lot of wholesale changes that we're looking to make. 12 plants and we haven't had the ability to get that done in a week with our architect. Tell us what kind of changes they requested. The neighbors? The neighbors were just very concerned about the size and the scope of the project. They have two three families side by side in the same block. You have the number one. Martin is the third. Again. All those in favor? Hi. Any opposed? The date please? Congratulations, you're into the new year. So January 10th 2017. Thank you. Are there any other deferrals or withdrawals for 1130? Hearing none, we'll go to the 1030 cases, calling BOA 613-852-19 Dorset Street. This is to change our team from a two family dwelling to a three family dwelling unit with one extra parking space to extend living space into both the basement and the attic. The violations, Article 65, Section 41, Off-Street Pocking Requirements, change of occupancy to add a third unit, we require an Off-Street Pocking spot for the added unit. The minimum driveway width would require this 10 feet, only 9 foot 9 is provided. Article 65, Section 9, excessive FAA. Name and address for the record please. Patrick Mahoney, Adams-Morancie, my address, business address is 350 West Broadway. Please tell us what's being proposed. Yes. We have the new Madam Chair. May I please the board. Today we have a two family occupancy existing condition. All the FAR that's being, that we're seeking relief for in this case, is existing in the two family. However, it does trigger a violation because it's a change of use. It's a three, it's a three F5,000, it's going from a two family, two or three families, what we're proposed. In addition, there's three new proposed parking spaces. Tell us where the proposed unit is going to be. It's a reallocation of the units. All of the living space proposed is already living space today. So we have a bilingual unit on the first floor. Unit 2 is on the second floor and unit 3 is in the attic. There's actually less FAR than there was as a two family because the mechanical room is positioned in the first floor of the bilingual unit and thereby reducing the living space by just less than 300 square feet. The variance that we're seeking for side yard is three inches of side yard space. The existing driveway is nine feet nine inches whereas ten feet required. Was there always dwelling space in the basement? Yes, Mr. Reside, there was. But again, the change of use from a two to a three would require new violations. And what's the floor to ceiling height in the basement? I believe it's seven foot six, ma'am chair. There is some structural work right now being done and I know they were adding additional clearance. Seven feet is required. And do all units have second means of egress? Yes, they do. And additionally there is an exfated window well for the bedroom in the rear level, the bilingual unit which is a building code into a building code compliance. Can I speak to us about the parking please? The parking is in the rear of the yard. There is no open space requirement for this sub district for three F unattached dwelling. And as such the three spaces were added. The neighborhood had some concerns about parking. And that's even though one space's additional space was required to accommodate the additional unit, my client had proposed to have three spaces to leave some of the off-street parking concerns. So you meet the parking requirement for the three units? That's correct. Okay. And your driveway I guess there's a 10 foot requirement and your nine feet, nine inches? Yes, ma'am chair. How are the plans, Mr. Reside? Not dramatic. Any questions from the board? Does anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the board, John Allison from the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. We'd like to go on record and support. We did hold an onsite of butters meeting and the proponent presented to the McCormick Civic Association. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Joe McGatgren City Councilor Frank Baker's office, we'd like to go on record and support. Madam Chair, members of the board, Paul Sullivan, and the opposite council, I'm Elijah Michael Plarrani, Councilor and Bill Records. Sorry, Madam Chair, members of the board, good afternoon. I'm Alana Olsen, Councillor Savi, George's office. We'd like to go on record and support. Does anybody here to speak in opposition? May I have a motion, please? Motion for approval. Second. Is there any exterior work? No, there's some siting, but there's just repair existing. Thank you. All those in favour? Aye. Any opposed? Motion for repair. It's good luck. Thank you. Calling VOA 610-098-362-S4th Street. This is to change the opportunity from offices and catering business to restaurant with 36A and three dwelling units to five dwelling units and extend living space into the basement. The violation is Article 14, Section 1. Laudierria for New Proposed Dwelling Unit is in sufficient. Article 14, Section 2. Laudierria for New Proposed Dwelling Unit is in sufficient. Article 15, Section 1. Floodier ratio is excessive. Article 17, Section 1. Usable open spaces in sufficient. In Article 23, Section 1, our street parking required is in sufficient. Name and address for the record, please. Good afternoon. Madam Chair, members of the board, attorney Nick Sizzula, McDermott, Quiltian Miller, 28th State Street here in Boston. To my right is Jason Weissman, who is the LLC manager of the property owner, and to my left is Derek Rubinoff, who is the architect on the project. Passed out to you some plans and renderings. The proposal is to change the occupancy of this existing building, formerly housed the FAMILARI's catering business on the corner of West 4th and E Street, to five dwelling units. Importantly, the complete renovations will be within the existing building envelope. We feel this will revitalize this building, replacing an outdated and nonconforming commercial use, with two residential units that are better conforming to the character of this residential neighborhood and consistent with the residential sub-district. Additionally, the multifamily residential use that we are proposing is allowed. And all of the zoning relief required is as a result of existing nonconformities from the existing building. Please, I cannot read this. Sure. So can you please just summarize for us what the building, what the zoning violations are, and what's required and what are your proposing? Yes, Madam Chair. So, lot size and sufficient. The 5,000 square feet is needed. The law is approximately 2,700 square feet. Again, that is an existing nonconformity. A lot area for additional dwelling units is needed as well. There are three dwelling units there already, and those are already existing nonconformities. Floor area ratio is 1.0. It was already nonconforming at 2.9. We are proposing to increase at a 3.5 by putting some living space in the basement. Useable open space, 2,000 square feet is required. We are approximately 1,000 square feet. Again, we were in existing nonconformity. The existing building was not in compliance. As well as off-street parking, there was no parking at the building. And again, those units are existing. It was already in existing nonconformity as a result. Tell us about the basement. What use, what will be the use of the space in the basement? So it will be the two new units will be duplexes. So I believe there will be a living space on the bottom floor of any bedrooms on the lower levels. I think there is one bedroom on the lower level each. What's the floor to ceiling again? I'm sorry, I missed that. The height? Yes, I believe it. I think so. It's roughly 9 feet. 9 feet. How are the plans, Mr. Pazani? Drugs or adequate? Any questions from the board? Can you just recite the square for the use of the units? Yes, Mr. Pazani. There are, one of them will be 1,600 square feet, and the other will be 2,000 square feet. Again, contain on two levels. Total number of bedrooms. The new units would be six bedrooms. They are both three bedrooms. Combined with the existing units, how many bedrooms? The other 16. Two, three, four, five, six. How many bedrooms? The other 16. 16. Including these new, these six new bedrooms, there would be 16 bedrooms in the building. No parking, we should provide. Correct, not on site. We have an agreement. We have a parking agreement at the next door building at 309 E Street for three parking spaces. How long? The property owner has them, he owns them, under an easement and a deed. Sorry, so there's how many bedrooms in the entire building? So there will be the two new units are three and three, so six and there are existing 10 bedrooms in the other three units. I believe the METH stop is less than a half mile away. It's either Broadway train stop or Broadway train stop and the interstation are both accessible by foot, correct. And there are bus lines on Broadway, which is right around the corner. This is really a change of occupancy from four stores at three dwellings to six dwellings then. No, there's only two additional dwelling units being added. So the top floors are all long existing dwellings and these would be adding just two or three beds. The basement. Correct. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak and support this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the board, John Allison from the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. We'd like to unrecord and support. We did hold an onsite of butters meeting. The proponent also presented to the Cityside Neighborhood Association, which was in support. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, John Allwork from Councillor Bill Lennie, hands office would like to echo the statements of the Mayor's Office and go unrecord and support. Madam Chair, members of the board, Alana Olson from Councillor Saviour George's Office. We'd like to go unrecord and support. Madam Chair, members of the board, Paul Sullivan. We have to discuss the council's last Michael Flerty. Councilor, could you unrecord and support? Madam Chair, if I may, we did also submit several letters of support from neighbors who couldn't make it here today. Thank you. Is anybody here in opposition? Please your name and address for the record. Carrie Devlin. And it's 381 West Broadway. I have a small business there. Please tell us about your concerns. I think there's a lot of small businesses or the businesses being the same around land. There's nothing unique about the businesses coming in. There are restaurants, real estate, and bars. Sorry, this is a book. So having it changed from a commercial one to a resident one, where the commercial could actually add tax dollars back into it. They add charitable events to people. They support local teams that the kids are on. They also have people do foot traffic. There's a big issue with everything. So you're concerned about losing the catering business? The catering business is not there. I'm just concerned with all the small businesses because they're struggling now. And people refer from one small business to the other and they make a community. So there's a lack of community and there's a big issue with that going down the seat point. And it's big traffic going down there. Then they're going to make all these super businesses down there. Like where are there chains that are going to go in? And the whole lack of community is kind of being missing. And that end from West Warrows is still kind of pure down there. And there's still something that it could be. It's not all free families. It's kind of nice down there to walk down. It is close to the train station, but you know, having businesses that are unique, benefit everyone in the community. Thank you. Thank you. I can respond to that if you like Madam Chair. So the existing catering office, it was a non conformity not allowed by zoning. We are reverting this back to our residential use, which is allowed by zoning. Additionally, the owner brought a proposal to the community last year for a restaurant at this location. And that was met with heavy opposition by the abutters in the immediate area. Hence the bringing of this residential project to the board. Okay. The function takes. The washroom approval. We are resigned you for exterior work at sign. Second. All those in favor? Hi. Any opposed? Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you very much. Probably P0A554 899 130 to 130 B Salem Street. Salem Street, yeah. Hold that off to the side. Calling B O A 62535106 to 120 Cambridge Street. This is a takeout of use. Granted to the petitioner for this shoes only. Change of condition, article six, section four, change of condition of the board. Amean address for the record. Morning, everyone. Christopher Coleman, 128 Lincoln Street Boston. On behalf of the applicant. My name is Henderson Lee, P0A Elm Street, branching. Mass. Please tell us what's being proposed. Current use right now is an Asian restaurant. The proposed use coming up will also be an Asian restaurant. Request is to remove the restriction for the takeout use from just the current operator to allow the new operator to work through the takeout. What is the name of the new business? It's a sushi retail. It is a combination of sushi and marina. There's no proposed work interior or in the exterior. Applicant is met with the Beacon Health Civic Association. They voted not opposition. Mr. Lee operates currently a takeout restaurant in Austin for the last five and a half years. Where? West Davis. Five, two, nine, Washington Street. In Boston? Brighton. In Brighton? Austin Brighton. Thank you. It's self-signed. The sign will remain the same just a different name. Right. It's all absolutely. No exterior changes. How do the plans look this design? Drinks are adequate. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the board, Jacob Wessel, mayors, off to neighborhood services. We'd like to go and record and support as the outcome mentioned, met with the Beacon Health Civic Association and numerous of butters. All were in support of this simple change. Anybody here in opposition? May I have a motion please? Would the usual takeout language? Welcome. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries with that. Provide. Thank you all. Calling B0858930205 Webster. This is an addition for the fourth story. Out of fourth story, we model level three and replace the rear decks instead. Violations, article 80, section 80, E-2. The project is subject to a small review by the BRA. Along with the BRA. The article 53, section 9. The mental regulations, excessive FAR, excessive building height, and insufficient side yet. Name and address for the record please. Sorry, Madam Chair. Good morning. I Richard Linz, 1216, Bennington Street. E-spot, on behalf of the petitioner. With me is John Hagen, who is the project architect. As the secretary indicated, this was also subject to small project review, not necessarily small project review for a number of units or size, but because of the inclusion and neighborhood design overlay. So we're anticipating BRA design review, the design review component of small project review, to be included with any decision in the board. As the secretary indicated, this is a proposal to add a fourth level edition to an existing three unit building. This is a three unit condominium located at the Jeffery's Point section. That is Boston. The proposal is to add the edition that is both architecturally and historically sensitive. This area of Jeffery's Point Notice Belmont Square maintains a number of homes which have historic qualities and character. And Mr. Hagen has gone through great lengths to ensure that the proposed design would meet or exceed the expectations of that community. Which it has based upon the community process that we had. With respect to the violations that were cited by the Inspectorial Service Department, the proposed height of the building would be increased to a total of four stories. Presently the property sits at about 32 feet. That will be just under 42 feet with the proposed edition. I would submit that based upon the character of that street and the indication of the height of the buildings that are joining or nearby. This would be consistent with the heights in that area. The second issue would be the floor to area ratio. The proposed additional gross floor that is being added as approximately 950 to 960 square feet. Presently the property is conforming with respect to FAR. Below the 1.0 that is provided for under Article 53. Our proposal would increase that slightly above the 1.0 because this actually is an oversized lot, not a typical size lot for the 3F 2000. In addition, side yard was cited as well based upon the lack of the 2.5 foot side yard on the right side of the building. The addition being proposed would be within the side yard setback. So that is also a violation. We did have the opportunity to present this not only to the butters, but to the Jeffers Point Neighbor Association that devoted overwhelmingly to support this proposal based upon the commitment by the property owner to utilize materials that were stated at the community meeting and to provide an addition that certainly meets, as I said, or exceeds the requirements for that particular neighborhood. Happy to answer any questions. How are the plans, Mr. Bazzani? Drunk Gerard? Is that the spiral staircase functioning as a second means of egress from the 4th to the 3rd floor? That is correct. There is in addition to the proposed addition, there is a reprogramming of the dex, the rear dex, and the stairwells. We fully anticipate, however, that with respect to any renovations that are done for this particular unit, we will be required to sprinkle that unit as well. Any questions from the board? Does anybody here just speak in support of this proposal? Good morning, Madam Chairman. I'm just so the board, Clatic, or we are from the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. We would like to go record and support the Jeffers Point Neighborhood Association, of what are in favor of this proposal. They also made a couple of changes in the design, heard their association's request. During the aboutters meetings, we had folks from the same building that showed up, the other owners in the same building, and next door abouters who were in support of the proposal. Yet, one direct the bottom of the street with only a concern about the height. But once again, the other condo owners in the same building are in support of this proposal. Thank you. Is anybody here in opposition? Please put your name and address on the record. Good afternoon, Madam Chairman and members of the board. My name is Robert Stankis. I'm a direct butter across the street at one Lampson in East Boston. I would urge the board to consider that this is a height variance, and there is a pattern that's taking place in the East Boston Jeffers Point Neighborhood about height. And although there were meetings at the JPA and Jeffers Point Association, the vote of this particular property, interestingly enough, was 28 to 15. So I guess we can consider that unanimous, but there were 15 of butters that did not approve this project. And the project is really a height issue, not the beautification, where the project is adding another story to an existing building that's been there longer than you folks have been alive. It's been always a three-story building, but now we want to make it a four-story. The proponent wants to make it a four-story building to add 960 square feet to his particular unit. Yes, he did get other, but his unit members to agree, because he's going to pay for the stair casing, he's going to pay for the entire project out of his one. So basically is the height? It's a height issue. It's a height issue. And interestingly enough, there are a number of other properties that have height issues that are coming to our meeting, coming to the GPA. And most recently, there was one, not two, not a block away, where the vote on that was 40 to one to deny the additional height. So I think it's, I urged the board to consider that as an issue on the height, because there's a number of properties in this Jefferson Point neighborhood that people want to go up higher, and essentially making it a concrete barrier wall down the street. So I would urge that the board consider that. It's not really, yes, it's a very beautiful design, but it's not for the benefit of an neighborhood. The extra 960 square foot is for that one particular resident in the neighborhood, and that's it. And he doesn't need to, he hadn't lived there before. It's been a rental property for the last eight years. So, so I go on record and urge the board to take this into consideration as opposing this request. Thank you. Thank you. Is anybody else here to speak in opposition? You're nailing a dress, please. Yes, my name is Ryan Sardelli, and I live at two lamps in street. Madam Chair, members of the board, I am also a direct butter, and this is the only property between my home and the city. Well, I realize it's a little self-serving that I come up here. I do want to address why I'm here. The height variance is too high, and it will block sunlight, open air, and outdoor space. It could have a detrimental impact on at least up to four owner occupied units within our general area. The building would be higher than the homes on all four sides of this building, and as it stands today, it's already above code. They're asking for almost a double-the-square footage of a condo for one master bedroom suite, and there is no hardship that exists here. This has been a rental income property, and the owner has not been occupying the unit. I respectfully ask that you deny the height variance, and I thank you for giving me the opportunity to speak here. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? May I have a motion, please? All those in favor? Any opposed? Motion, please. Following the other way, 618-077-126-128 London Street. This is to change the opportunity to four unit residential dwelling and add an addition. The violation of the Article 53 Section 8, multi-family residential is the bidden and the three-family residential district. Article 53 Section 9, dimensional regulations, relief will be required for an extension of the existing insufficient additional law area for additional dwelling units due to the additional of the fourth unit. Article 53 Section 9, excessive building height. Article 53 Section 9, excessive number of stories. Article 53 Section 9, excessive FAR. Article 53 Section 9, insufficient usable open space. And Article 53 Section 56, off-street parking, insufficient. May I have an address for the right, please? We're going out in chair members of the board, Richard Lins, 1216, Bennington Street. On behalf of the petitioner, London 128 LLC. Bennington, this is a proposal for a property that is just located just outside of central square in East Boston. As you can see from the photos that I provided, the building that we're talking about is the one that has the, as I call it, the missing tooth on the roof. The buildings that are joining this are all at a height that we're proposing to make our building consistent with, is surrounded by a number of four stories along London Street as well as a large church to the right. This property was traditionally rental property. This will undergo a complete rehabilitation, which will then be converted to condominium use. So that includes full upgrade to life safety, sprinklers, and fire alarm. In addition, the proposal to add the additional space will allow for the use of the building for four residential units. Historically, this building has been a mix of three residential and a confusing commercial space that was located at the lower level. We had no intentions of occupying that commercial space when the client had purchased that property, and therefore chose to convert to a full conversion to residential. With respect to the violations, multi-family is forbidden, however, it is not unusual in that area. There are a number of multi-families along London Street as well as within central square. It also points out that the three F2000 district with this property sits as actually boarded by the community commercial sub-district. A large development of, I believe, 38 units is being constructed behind this building, so a multi-family use is not inconsistent with the use in that area. With respect to the dimensional violations, the lot is 18-air square feet. However, we proposed that the addition of the additional dwelling unit that would require an additional 1000 square feet is not unlike the lot sizes for the remaining properties along London Street. It would be consistent for a four unit dwelling. Accessive building height, again, this would bring the building height to the same height as the buildings to the left of it and actually lower than the church to the right, so we would actually be making a more consistent uniform building height along that block. The excess of FAR, the property is already non-conforming with 3684 square feet at a 2.0 FAR. We would be increasing that to a 2.7 with the additional space and the capturing of the space in a lower level. In exhibition-useable open space, again, in existing condition that's already non-conforming, we would require an additional 350 square feet for open space. We are proposing to add some decks to the rear and therefore would have some additional open space to add. So, Carlos, please, what are the sizes of the units? Units will range from 980 square feet up to about 16-hz square feet for the upper. Go to our unit by unit. I'm sorry. Give us the break down unit by unit. They include in the packet as well, but I'll say it for the record. Unit 1 is 1115 square feet. That's a 2 plus bedroom. 1150 square feet for unit 2. That's a 3 bedroom. 980 square feet is a 2 bedroom and the 1625 square feet for the duplex level up top is a 3 bedroom for a total of 10 bedrooms. This 10 bedrooms in this building. Correct. And it basically the building goes from lock line to lock lines and no possibility of parking. That's correct. Okay. How are the plans Mr. Pazani? The drives are accurate. Any questions or more? I can't tell from the packet maybe Mr. Pazani can have some of the work to play. We'll left the side of the additional more viewing performing of the design to the door to the left. Yeah, and there's a question, I believe you'll hear from a director about her who's to the left of us. I did have a conversation in the hall before the hearing is first time he'd raised this concern. My understanding is from designer view that we will be likely doing a Marrensar group that will show the very similar architecture with assistance. I believe that's the case. And what's the floor to ceiling height in the garden unit? It ranges from 7.5 feet to 8 feet because we'll use compliant. Does anybody here just speak and support of this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the Royal Clinic Career Fund may or sometimes the night-boost services will like to go on recording support. During the Abba, does anybody have help back in August? There was no opposition as a matter of fact, the one business owner showed up thinking that it has always been a four unit building. Fabian said. Thanks. Thank you. Thank you. Does anybody here know opposition? Madam Chair, members of the Board, I'm Sean Dirty. I'm a butter, 124 London Street. I had missed the previous meeting which was held on a Saturday afternoon and a little in the summer. I haven't received much information about this project. So I have to discuss with the Mayor, if you wouldn't just like a little more information besides, you know. I'm sure the attorney would be happy to speak with you. Thank you. Is anybody else here to speak in opposition? May I have a motion? Motion for approval to the other environment. Second. In favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Please speak to the butter. I'm going to go back to the Salem Street here. 130 to 130 B Salem Street. I'm going to make a motion for denial without prejudice. Second. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Calling 1130 rediscussions. Calling BOA574306. 5 Faneuall Street. This is scrubbed up demolish the existing building and constructing new cow wash. Violation to the article 51 section 16. Cow wash is a conditional use. Article 51 section 53 screening and buffering is in submission. May I have an address for the record please? afternoon. My name is Attorney James O'Mara. I have an office address at 339 in Dorchester Street in South Boston. I'm going to go back to the table. Will anybody else at the table be speaking? I'll be speaking primarily if you have questions. We have a traffic engineer here and about pay attention to the service scrubbed up. Just a reminder to everybody here who's here for rediscussion please. Tell us what you're here for and second tell us why you would defer and what's transpired since. Okay. Our own hair representing scrubbed up regarding their application to demolish the existing structure and constructing new cow wash on site. We were deferred because we had us tie up some community some tie up the under the community process at the request to councilor Saminos office and we've had a couple other meetings with the butters in with the councilor and we seem to come to a resolution or all matters. What were the issues? Primarily traffic. Proof into the traffic flow of the site and our traffic engineers work extensively with BTD on that. He submitted multiple sets of plans to BTD and received their import and all of BTD's import has been implemented into the final set. Okay so you're going to reconfigure the car wash. Tell us how the traffic is going to flow. So we will have Jason Adams. I'm a professional traffic engineer with McMan Associates 45 Brownfield Street in Boston and we have a new car wash facility that will vehicles will enter the site via a single entering lane circulate around the site to go through the car wash and then exit the site via either a left turn lane or a right turn lane onto Fannual Street. Okay. Tell us so that all the vacuuming and everything will occur basically on on market street. Everything will be contained on the site so there will be no access onto market street. Directly that that curb cut will be closed as part of this project. Okay. Okay. It's hard to say I was involved with the community process when the first Crabbitab went in and been sorry to see the state it's been maintained. So what's to say that this vote go the same path? I might have a lengthy pasonry. I'm third generation of the family business that owns an operate scrubbed up. Another actually helped construct the first one that you see right behind me. I also live in Boston. I'll get five Fannual Street as my address. So just to clarify on that when the site was built we had an outside partner. We didn't own the property. We lease the property and we had an outside partner. The outside partner failed to fulfill his obligations to work on the site to improve it with us. So we were stuck paying for everything ourselves and the the owner of the property made it made it very unclear to us whether we could be able to stay there for an extended period of time. So when we as soon as we purchased the property and we were able to buy out the existing partner on the site is when we put together these improvements to enhance the offering of what the site is providing to the community because we know we're hoping to be there for the long term. Is this a model for the scrubbed ups in the city? This is a model that aligns with most of the other scrubbed ups that we have in place but it's an evolved model to be much more efficient and more beautiful for what it provides. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the board, Kevin McLaughlin from Councillor Siamo's office. The Councillor did have some initial concerns about this project but following a lengthy community process with BTT, the Office of Neighborhood Services, the proponents, members of the community and our office. He feels those concerns have been adequately addressed. The actions of the proponents going forward are outlined in a memo of understanding that we'd like to submit to the board for approval the highlights of which are that they will use cameras to monitor the entrance and exit onto the annual street. During peak hours, they will position an employee at the entrance and exit of the annual street to ensure that excessive queueing does not take place on the annual street. Improvements to the intersection including greater handicapped pedestrian access and realignment of the crosswalk. Finally, they will reconvene with a post-construction meeting to discuss any issues which have occurred due to the completion of this project. Under the terms of this agreement, our office would be in support of their proposal. Thank you. I just have one question. Those cameras tied into the boss of police. We plan on having approximately 16 WIFI cameras on the site. We made it clear in the community process that we can release at any point in time any footage they need. They requested that we actually add cameras on site because the area is known for having some lettering. We plan on making that available to the police at any time they need. I'd just like to add that BTT has also reviewed their plans and they have signed off on it. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the Board, John Allison from the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. On behalf of Warren O'Reilly, we'd like to go on record and support. Thank you. Thank you. Is anybody here in opposition? One last question. What are your hours of operation? This site will be operating from 7.30 a.m. to 8.00 p.m. It will not be open 24 hours like the existing facility so it will be closed after that. Any other questions from the Board? We have a motion. Motion to approve with design review from the form of BRA. All those in favor? Can't say the name yet. I can't remember what it was, Jeff. Sorry. There's too many letters for me too. What is it? The Boston Planning and Development Agency. That too. That too. So it's a PDA. That key for our already said he already likes it because PDA is in the name. Is there a second? I mean not to the name but to the motion. Yes. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. You're all set but that provides up. Thank you. Calling BLA-584946-6060208 West Broadway. This is to combine two parcels, a new construction of 16 residential units and a cafe with take-off. The violation of Article 57, Section 26. Off-street parking requirements is insufficient. Article 57, Section 23. Street wall continuity. Article 57, Section 11. Multi-family dwelling unit is conditional use. Article 57, Section 12. Floody A ratio is excessive. Article 57, Section 12. The maximum building height is excessive. Article 57, Section 12. The minimum usable open space is insufficient. Article 57, Section 12. The side yard requirements is insufficient. In Article 57, Section 12, three yard setback requirements is insufficient. Name and address for the record please. Uh David Foss. 93-piece street self-boston. I'm attorney for the developer. I'm a Brown director of self-boston NDC. We're the developer with self-broadway and self-boston. Mark Winkel, executive director of carcassies. I live two-ever street wall. Please tell us what's being proposed. Okay we have two lots. There are a lot of 206 to 208 West Broadway. We're combining them to make one lot of about approximately 4,000 square feet and we're going to construct a three-story building with 16 residential units round for a commercial space. So it's a 16 family? How many? 16 families? 16 units yes. Your workforce housing units. I'm still a little small. Round for you. Do you define Army what workforce housing is? So it's based on the affordability level. These units are this is a city-owned lot that D&D put out for request for proposals. The units will be affordable rental housing to people making between roughly 30 and 60,000 a year. Up to 8% of area median. That was differentiated from affordable housing. What is the difference? Well the difference is in the income levels. So we do have two homeless set-aside units but the focus was to reach those renters who would be earning up to 60,000 a year depending on household size where many of the affordable housing developments that we do that are funded by the federal low-income housing tax credit for example are only affordable to people making up to 40,000 a year. So we're broadening that affordability definition. It still fits within the definition of affordable housing under some of the city sources like neighborhood housing trust but it's a little bit broader than inclusionary development units or units funded by the state. So if there's a 16 units why do I have a plan before me with I suppose with a garage and three units and a roof deck? Okay so tell us about the sizes of the units. So a little bit of our architect Cliff Boomer from Davis Square Architects to describe them but there are nine studios and seven one bedroom units and the studios are in the 420s, 450 square foot size range and the one bedroom units are over 600 square feet. One bedroom is 600 square feet and your homeless set-asides will be studios of one bedroom's one of each. There are two homeless set-aside units in this. Studios on the Misi and they'll be having parking provide, having parking spaces for them. There's no parking on this site. The site is a 4,000 square foot infill site that's city owned and we worked closely with the community. They strongly favored having a ground floor cafe and the site is surrounded by other buildings and only accessible for any parking on Broadway which is the main thoroughfare in South Austin. So we all agree that it wasn't appropriate for us to try and put parking on this site. It would basically make it impossible for us to develop the site for affordable housing and provide the ground floor cafe that the neighbors wanted. So this site is also located about point two miles from the Broadway red line stop and this is transit oriented housing for the workforce. We've provided bike racks for each of the residents and we're offering residents who take a no car pledge which is voluntary to be assigned a discounted MBTA pass. So is this going to be in the condo docks and the docks so that it goes out into inter-properity then? Yes. Inter-properity as long as the building is there regardless of the owner. Right and this is deed restricted affordable housing so all of that is included in the documents that the deed restricted this building. Okay how about the plans Mr. Sonny. I'm going to drive it quick. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Madam Chair and members of the board John Allison from the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. We'd like to go on record and support this has been through a successful BRA community process. They are providing not only affordable housing but affordable retail so we'd like to go on record and support thank you. Hi Madam Chair and members of the board, Alana Olson for Counselor Saby George and we'd like to go on record and support of this project. Madam Chair and members of the board John I'll work from Counselor Pillooning Hands Office would also like to go on record and support. Madam Chair and members of the board Paul Sullivan we have a set of council that allows Michael Plarrie to go on record and support. Come on Madam Chair and more of them is Tom here on the project manager for the Department of Neighborhood Development. We wanted to go on record and just let your folks know that this is also currently the last buildable lot other than one of the BHA owns for affordable housing and self-gloss and cities looking forward to getting this into construction and providing a unique range from elderly to retirees to single working couples or individuals in the next year. Thank you for your support. Michael Foley out of 114 West Terstreet I'm a neighbor and on the board of directors of the South Park neighborhood development corporation and I stick in favor of this project. I haven't seen you in a while Mike. I'm Bob Anaheim, lifelong resident and also the president of the board but also I served for many years on the board of the South Austin Association of Nonprofit and the income ranges of the folks who work for the nonprofits fall within this range and we would urge you to approve this so folks who are working in the recovery community the family development support non-profits can be living the community at the same time. Thank you. Thank you. Morning board members thank you for this opportunity to comment. Playing Mahoney St Vincent's Lower Enablement Association we fully support this project in the rich and the boards approval. Thank you. Thank you. If anybody here in opposition, how is this election for the homeless placement going to work? I think from other, just tell us how it's going to work. We'll be holding a lottery for these units and we do a massive mailing and outreach to homeless shelters and then they are subject to the lottery just like the other non-homeless set aside units and then we'll also be working with an organization called Home Start. Okay. May I have a motion please? Motion to approve. Second. The area is ready. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Good luck. 78720198 Bowen Street. Three family, condominium, four and a half story building including an enclosed garage for three parking spaces located at grade. This is Woodfield Construction throughout the area. Violations, Article 13, Section 13-1, insufficient lot size, Article 13, Section 13-1, insufficient lot area for additional dwelling, Article 13, insufficient lot width, Article 13, excessive floor area ratio, Article 13, insufficient usable open space, Article 13, insufficient front yard and no existing street alignment driving was provided. Article 13, Section 13-1, insufficient area, Article 14, Section 4, life frontage is insufficient, and Article 23, Section 23-9, insufficient maneuverability design of parking, an arbitrary park. Name and address for the record. You have to name Madam Chair and Members of the Board. My name is George Morancy. I'm an attorney with the Business Address of 350 West Broadway in South Boston. I apologize for any confusion. I may have caused by sitting down for the last hearing thinking it was this hearing. So these handouts that the Board members have are for this hearing. Madam Chair, Members, this is an application for a new three family dwelling, four story three family dwelling on a vacant lot of land on Bowen Street and South Boston. The area of the lot is approximately 1,995 square feet. This project is actually part of what has become a piecemeal development of my clients property on the site. The Board may recall in June I was here for a project at 215-217 West Fifth Street. This is a lot through a block through lot, I should say, between Bowen Street going on to West Fifth Street. In June this Board approved two townhouse kind of many of the units on the fifth street side of this lot which has been subdivided. There is an existing single family home next to the new two units that was approved by this Board before the June hearing four change from single family occupancy to a two family. This is the final part, the Bowen Street lot which is the site of a proposed three family dwelling. So how many units altogether on that lot? These are separate lots. This is a subdivided lot. The block through lot is subdivided and has actually been the subdivided was affected with the two family townhouse proposal was approved by this Board in June. So this is in fact the other section of that lot. The reason that has been done this way is because initially an eight or nine unit building was proposed for the entirety of the site. The neighbors felt that there was an overwhelming structure for the block not in line with existing architecture and massing. So we broke it down. We kept the existing single family change the occupancy added two two family townhouses on the fifth street side. And again as I say this is a four story three family dwelling which is kind of becoming the new of the most recent you know modal three F construction in cell Boston in that it has parking on the first floor. In this case there are three spaces, two of them are arranged in a tandem configuration but no living space on the first floor. Living spaces achieved on the first second and third floors above the garage. I mentioned that the site size is 1995 square feet. This is old H150 zoning very close to being replaced which requires a 5,000 square foot minimum lot size for even a single family. We therefore require a variance on that. The minimum lot with an H150 again which is not typical of the neighborhood is 50 feet. This lot is nearly 32 feet in width. The maximum FAR under an H150 is 1.0. We're at point 1.89 being mindful again of the conversations that have been taking place in the community in terms of the cell Boston's rezoning effort and what is at this point projected to be a maximum 2.0 when the new zoning is introduced. The height of the building is four stories and just about 40 feet. It's actually 39 feet 11 inches. Again mindful of the zoning heights that are being talked about in the ongoing cell Boston rezoning effort. There's no usable open space provided but for small rear porches. The porch structures on the back are intended primarily to achieve secondary means of egress. Each level would have an approximately 50 square foot platform which would be a small porch for each of the units. There is no rear yet setback but again my client is his own abut to the rear at this time and there is at least 20 feet of separation distance between the rear of this building and the rear of 252 17 west 5th street when that is in fact constructed. The zoning refusal letter does cite a side yard setback violation but in fact there is no side yard setback violation pursuant to section 19, article 19 section 4 there's no required side yard set back in an H district for the first 70 feet of locked up. There's a 10 by 12 foot roof deck would be accessed by patch is for the use of the top floor unit only. The unit sizes and compositions are unit one would be 986 square feet unit two would be a thousand two square feet unit three would be one thousand eighty eight square feet each unit would have two bedrooms in one baths. I do have a question and it has to do with how you get parking space number one if parking space number three is built. Essentially it's going to require cooperation among the owners these are intended as condominium units for sale parking spaces would be purchased and then the unit owners would need to work that on among themselves. I mean as in any tandem parking situation it will need to be cooperation among unit owners. It sounds like for all three spaces you're going to need strong cooperation. Yes I don't disagree. Any other questions from the board? Anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the board John Allison from the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services we'd like to go on record and support. We've held a few butters meetings on this proposal at which there's been mixed feedback some of them feedback has been very positive. There have also been concerns raised about the height. They did also present to the city side neighborhood association which is in support. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board John I'll work from Councillor Bill Linne's office would also like to one record and support. Good afternoon my name is Greg Dunnevin. I'm the butter to this project at one cell eight five bowling streets the free family. I would like to just make note that I am in support of this project based on the fact that I was an early pioneer down on Bones Street with most people not even considered developing on Bones Street and I do have shuriken encourage the project to be approved in its excellent addition to the street. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board John Allison from the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services we have a city council out large Michael Flarey and Councillor Dora against board. Does anybody here in opposition? Good afternoon, Madam Chair. My name is Scott Piquini and I am an owner and a resident at 198 West six street which is in a budding butter to the 198 Bones Street proposed. I'm here on behalf of the neighborhood and also have a letter here that is from my neighbor and resident and owner Stephanie Korman who lives at 200 West six street and she is very succinctly put together our concerns in the neighborhood and like to read that letter to you today. If you could submit the letter into the record that highlight for us what concerns are. Sure absolutely. The concerns are broken down into kind of three key areas. The first has to do with traffic. The parking entrance for both the three proposed parking spaces at 198 Bones and four parking spaces for proposed development at 213 to 15 and 217 West 5th Street will be at 198 Bones Street. This will route a disproportionate amount of traffic down an already busy narrow one way street on which children walk and play daily. The second has to do with parking. Parking in a neighborhood that already suffers a shortage of parking these new developments will further exacerbate the problem although each unit will by law have one deed at garage space. No doubt some of the resident families will have more than one car plus guests. Three the fire hazard the proposed developments will create an incredibly dense sleep developed block. We are concerned that such dense development further increases the risk of spread of fire in a neighborhood that has experienced numerous devastating fires in recent years. Four the negative effect on property value all of the above in addition to blocking current views of the city skyline will negatively affect the property value of others. One final appeal we're not opposed to development of the lot at 198 Bones Street. We just asked that that that structure be consistent with those structures surrounding it. Currently the proposed building is a story higher than all existing buildings directly surrounding it. The abutting buildings are therefore directly affected negatively as a result of the proposed form story building. And then I guess lastly there's some question about whether or not the plot of land was originally sold as what we believe to be called in a butters or yard sale lot. To our understanding the deed of the sale may state that the building may not occur on the land. If this is the case we implore you to investigate that question. Thank you. Mr. Morens say can you please speak to the butter sale and the traffic issues? This is not no portion of the site is in the butters law it was not acquired by the Department of Neighborhood Development. My recollection is that my office actually represented in fact I know for fact I represented my client when he purchased the land that is not the case. In terms of building heights it is a forced to rebuild. There is no height variance no we leave that we're seeking with respect to building height and zoning compliant that we respect to height and I had to say that it will probably be zoning compliant under the new zoning not not speaking for the BPD or the city but it does appear that 40 feet is the most commonly discussed building height under the new zoning. With respect to traffic access through the driveway again talking about the entirety of the three parcels 1 2 3 4 7 7 cars I just don't view that personally as a particular safety hazard. Bowen street is like any other street in the city of Boston. Lots of people walked children and mothers included on all of our public streets and there are many many examples of curb cuts in cell Boston to hire him a much higher traffic volume than what is being proposed here with no incidents. Given this information may I have a motion please. All those in favor any opposed motion carries the back provides. Thank you. Following BOA 5E 3 6 9 3 8 60 East 4th 3. This is to confirm occupancy of a one family dwelling. The proponent is looking to add one room extension onto the existing footprint of their home. The violation is Article 13 Section 13-1. Accessive FAA the maximum allowed is 1412 feet. Article 20 Section 4. Rail yards in a H district insufficient rail yard setback. Name an address for the record please. Ashley Keene 860 East 4th Street. I'm here speaking on behalf of my husband the applicant Tim Keene. We were here last month for our proposal to add a one bedroom to our two bedroom house for to accommodate our family. Your concerns at that time you proposed our deferrals that we could meet with the neighborhood association that had opposed and they were on recess for the summer. We were able to meet with them since the last meeting and found out that their key concerns were that we had not reviewed our plans with them which is fair we didn't know that we needed to do that so we were able to meet with the president and the vice president to review the proposal. Their other concern was that we have a butter who has some objections so they asked that we meet with her and try to meet some of those objections. We did hold that meeting with John Austin from the mayor's office the butter and the city point association. She had three concerns which I'll briefly summarize. The first is privacy. The second was a shadow impact on her property and the third is proximity. We were able to find compromises on the first two of three so we agreed to compromise and remove a window facing her northern property. We were able the city point association actually was able to provide a shadow study that showed no northern impact of a shadow on her property and the third was proximity. She had requested that we build our bedroom two feet smaller so two feet further away from her property which we had agreed to at the time. Unfortunately after discussing with our structural engineer we found out that if we don't use the supporting wall of the floor below we'd have to incur severe cost to add support beams to build it two feet smaller. How large is this addition? It's 200 square feet it's a 10 by 12 bedroom. And it's on the first floor? It's on the second floor so it'll be directly above our kitchen. Okay. How are the plans for the design? Drawing the board. Any questions from the board? I also have letters of support from the other of butters that I can submit for the record. Did you get to speak in support of this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the board, John Ellison from the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. We would like to go on record and support just with the proviso that the applicant has agreed to that there be no rear-facing window. We would also like to request the R.A. design review just to address the concerns of the rear-rebutter. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, John Ellison from Councillor Bill Lenny hands office. We'd like to echo the statement to the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood and Record and Support. Madam Chair, members of the board, Alana Olsen from Councillor Saby George's office. We'd like to go on record and support. Does anybody here to speak in opposition? Hi, Madam Chair and the board. I am the only about her. She will be basically in my bedroom. If she builds this, I have pictures. He had that I can show you. My sunlight will definitely be affected. I had asked that you move back two feet. That would at least give me some more room. Very close to my bedroom. Okay. Thank you. So are we looking for clarification? So it looks like you have the White House. No, the butter. She's directly to our north so she's behind us. So it looks like part of the house there's an indent and it makes it sort of an L shape in that location. That's right. Okay. Once everybody has had a chance to review that the photo may have a motion please. Motion approval. All in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries with that proviso. Calling VOA 605-834-644-646 East Vistory. This is alterations to an existing two family to include a third floor addition with new front and rear roof decks. Extend living space into the basement and excavation of the basement with new slab. Violations, Article 13, Section 13-1, insufficient FAA. Article 13, Section 13-1, insufficient usable open space. Name and address for the record please. Tim Johnson, architect 190-owned colony at Boston. Madam Chair, members of the board I'm here on behalf of the owner Philip Smith and the deferral allowed us to meet with the butters for a total of three meetings and provide them with additional information and compromise which included shadow studies, soil tests of the material to be excavated from the basement and to delete all exterior deaths. So tell us have any of the zoning violations been minimized? We have two zoning violations. We're seeking relief for two violations, Madam Chair. FAR 1.0 is required. We're at 1.8 and the usable open space 400 square foot pedwelling unit is required we're at 338 square feet pedwelling unit. We are proposing an addition renovation to an existing two family. It will be owner occupied. The new work will not expand the building footprint. We're excavating the basement for unit 1, creating a three bedroom, two bath unit at 1600 square feet and we're adding a third floor addition set back 14 feet from the street to create unit 2 at three bedroom, two and a half bath at also 1600 square feet. So tell us about the extension into the basement. What is the basement space going to be used for? The basement space will be used for a recreation room and two bedrooms with ensuite baths. We will have window wells to the rear provided required egress windows. I'm sorry sir. Silling height would be 8 foot 2, approximately. Okay and is there a roof deck also proposed? There was a roof deck proposed. We deleted the roof deck and the plans I submitted Miss Bazzani reflect that. How are the plans Mr. Bazzani? They're drarger adequate. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak and support this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the board John Allison from the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. We'd like to go on record and support just with the proviso that no roof deck be added to this property and perpetuity as a result of the community process. And we'd also like to ask for BRA design review with special attention to the roof and the sliding door on the front of the addition. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board John Aurek from Council of the Liniands Office. We'd also like to echo the statements of the Mayor's Office of Go and Record and Support. Madam Chair, members of the board Paul Sullivan, I'd be happy to sit across the floor. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Is anybody here in opposition? We have a motion. Motion for approval with BPDA design review. Thank you. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries with those provisoes. We will take a break and do back in session at 115. Calling the last case of the day, BOA 613-855-377 was first street. This is direct nine residential units, one commercial unit space building within the 15 indoor parking spaces. Violations article 68, section 11. First street, NDA, excessive FAR, and article 68, section 11. Maximum allowed height has been exceeded. They have an address for the record place. Good afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is George Moranxi. I'm an attorney with the business address of 350 West Broadway in South Boston. I'm joined by the owner of the property, Donald Clancy, seated too over to my right, and also by the purchaser of the property and the person who would be the developer of the property, my client Greg Dunnevin. Madam Chair, members of the board, this section of East, sorry West First Street, lies between F Street and Dorchester Street to orientate the board. There is a 49 unit four building project fairly recently completed to the left of the building. This was Mr. Dunnevin's project at 401-407 West First Street. The site here in question is the home to Clancy and Suns. Mr. Clancy and his Suns are a run a union demolition contracting company at this location. They have an adjacent parcel where they operate their business. This is a vacant parcel that serves primarily at this time as a site for storage of construction vehicles demolition equipment in debris. Mr. Clancy and his family have been operating the company for with 30 years now. They're in section of South Boston that was once primarily manufacturing an industrial and commercial and with the advent of Article 68 this area was re-zoned as an NDA and neighborhood development area to encourage residential redevelopment. As a consequence Mr. Clancy is feeling some of the pressures of residential encroachment to the point where he believes that it's only a matter of time before his industrial use is demolition business here is going to be incompatible with surrounding residential development that being the case. He's selling the property to my claim Mr. Dunnevin who was seeking to effectively put a fifth building almost identical in in height and massing to the four other buildings that he owns on this block or that he developed on this block and has been selling this kind of many of the units. This building would contain nine dwelling units. It is sitting on a lot of land consisting of 9,882 square feet. 79-82, Madam Chair. And there are two zoning violations to get right to the point. In this NDA there's a maximum allowable height of 45 feet. The height of this building would be 50 feet from grade and there is a maximum FAR here of 2.0. This building would have an FAR of 2.9. Those are the only violations. The nine units would be served by 15 garage parking spaces on the first floor of the building and there would be nine units above that. The first floor would have three two bedroom units. The second floor would have three two bedroom units. The third floor would have a three bedroom and a three bedroom by-level unit and then the fourth floor would be a three bedroom unit plus the upper portion of the third floor by-level three bedroom. There would be an exclusive use roof deck of approximately 500 square feet, a common roof deck of approximately 1300 square feet and an additional exclusive use roof deck of 965 square feet. The buildings at 401, 407 enjoy both private and common roof decks and they've proven to be very popular among the owners there. They do a four very nice views of the harbor and the skyline in South Boston. So again we're here for those two variances, five foot height differential from the maximum and an FAR again of 2.9 as opposed to 2.0. We've gone through a fairly extensive community process involving a butter meetings that were held in the condom school. This has been the subject of Boston redevelopment authority article 80 process. The BPDA voted board voted on this matter on September 15th and the vote list will prove it. It's an article 80 project by virtue of the square footage of the project not by the number of units. Article 80 small project review is targeted 15 units or 20,000 square feet. This is only a nine unit project but was triggered by the square footage. It's part of that community process. My client Mr. Dunnivan and the clientes have been able to secure a significant amount of support for the project which is illustrated in one of the handouts that I provided to the board. I have here which I'll submit for the record approximately 170 emails letters and signatures in support in addition to the electronic comments that were received by the Boston redevelopment authority. How is the parking there? Where is the access to? There's a per cut on west first street as well. Tell us does the building go to the property line or what's the side side setback? There's a setback on the side of the front. In three foot side setbacks on both the dutch ester side of the building and the the up street side of the building. The rear yard is zero. It's a street modal because it fronts our asking because generally in the literature there is definitely complaints when residential uses go up. Even though they know they're going up next to an industrial use or some other use. So I was just wondering what the possibility was for any speed of offering or anything right back to minimize those potential complaints. One of the things that I like to address is that the rear and dresser street is currently about a two and a half foot to three foot sidewalk. We're making that a five foot sidewalk but in the addition this building actually has a tank farm, a jet fuel oil farm. So we're capping that whole site in terms of I'm just I can't understand that when I'm asking is you know a very strong legitimate business is there. They have their own hours of operation etc etc which residents of that building may see as a nuisance because that happens sometimes. I may not have been clear that the the the clan seasons to clan see and his sons are actually relocating. My client is actually working with them to relocate the business, find them a satisfactory location the entire business is moving. I'm sorry I'm misunderstood where you were going with that and I wasn't clear that this is a vacant lot that's serving as storage for the company but the demolition business itself is is going to be relocated as part if this were to be approved and as part of the transaction. Okay and tell us about that commercial use that it looks like there might be some space in there. Yes it's it's a fairly small commercial space in the 401 403 405 and 407 West first street buildings each one has a commercial space there of a 300 350 square feet or so and they've actually been filled a nice niche that that has been missing in cell Boston for a small a smaller business people who can't afford and wouldn't need 1500 a 2,000 square feet on West Broadway. There's a jewelers in their Murphy's jewelers which has been in the community as long as I can remember for decades who occupies one of the spaces and there are some other small neighborhood entrepreneurs who have spaces in in the existing buildings and the same thought would go here that this would be available for somebody in the community again a small startup who doesn't need a lot of space and can't afford to rent some West Broadway or East Broadway. Drones are adequate I do have one question one concern and that is that at the upper levels level three the size of the unit is 3450 square feet which is triple the size of most of the lots and cell Boston almost well under the script and that question comes about we had a project similar to this on H3 where it was sold from one develop to another the second develop came back made a very strong argument for why he should be allowed to subdivide and increase the number of units because it didn't affect the FAA I didn't affect the height and affect the difference so what prevents this project in the future in the size of the number of units by some I have never thought about a couple of things my client in the unit size is one thing that he is responding to is the fact again as I pointed out a couple times he developed 401-407 West Burst Street which also includes some large units not as large as these and they were among the first units to sell and there was a lot of desire for the larger units one of these is actually a four bedroom unit the unit in question I made this identified it as a three bedroom unit so my client is trying to do is to fill a demand that he saw existing when he developed 401-407 and also to fill the void for housing that is suitable for people with children for families which you know there are an abundance of 1200 square foot two bedroom units on the market in cell Boston this building is intended to target a different demographic and the answer but in the finish and the answer to your specific question as to will you see this developer or some other developer back at this board seeking to subdivide this space and create more units absolutely not yeah for anyone who knows my client Mr. Dunnevin builds his project sells you know sells units hold you know keeps a stake in every business in every building that he's ever developed he's not somebody who flips properties and also there is a real disincentive to anybody who would think about doing that since going hitting the plateau of 10 levels would require affordable commitment and therefore it would make it require there are 15 spaces so we exceed the obstruct parking requirements but there would not be any economic incentive to subdividing a market rate unit and creating one or more affordable units which are essentially great. The other question is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal is anybody here in opposition? Is anybody in support? My name is Mary Hogan I live on our second street at the down west second street for 31 years previously that I lived up the point on east third street the developer project that's behind me Greg Dunnevin built it's a very nice building the people living in there seem to be happy with it the things I like about it is because there's no cash or people accessing on the dressing street and if you look at dressing street it's a very small street I say we here on one side with Greg Dunnevin's building is you have hydrants and white poles and telephone poles on that sidewalk and other streets and cell blocks and have the same thing so it's a very small street my concern is in the winter time with the snow you know the plow going down I said if you push in the snow away from the other townhouses that the people that are living me and now I said that a lot of them I have in children I feel the less traffic on that street the better because I see the children biking up and down on the street and for the project I said Greg Dunnevin has been very accommodating with the previous buildings that he built I worked with him on different ideas and he was very accommodating so I would like to see this project go throw none of that Greg is part of the community he's donated a lot of money and done a lot of things for the community there a lot of people don't know about because he doesn't talk about it so I just support because of his track record yes yes yes yes okay I'll speak in support my name is my name is Frank Logan a little bit four 12 or second street I'm for the project thank you hi my name is Cara Dunnevin I'm Frank's wife and I hate public speaking but I wanted to come and just ask you to look at the merits of the project for the fact that it has three bedrooms that our hope is to keep families here I'm a self-possed in resident a self-possed in business owner and please just keep that in mind thank you good afternoon joy slabadoo 525b second street I lived on that street for 12 years I purchased in that neighborhood because of the great growth potential that it held I am in favor of this project just as I was in favor and supported the distillery as you know is a huge project in this neighborhood which is directly across the street from my home I realize some people are against this height because of views I quickly learn that I have a beautiful view but somebody else's view behind me had to be taken away from me to get that view so I don't own my view and that's why I supported the distillery because yeah I'm going to lose some of my view but what this building and buildings like 401 407 was first street 11 doorchester 5092 second street I can go on and on and on I support it each and every one of them and I beg you to join me and support this project not just on my behalf the other 24 people that live in my complex that are all in favor of this and I also speak as part of attorney for my son who is serving our country as a corporal in the United States Marine Corps this is his inheritance and I would beg you to support this and stay consistent with what what's first street corridor looks like thank you thank you anybody else speak in support is anybody here now the session Madam chair members of the board John Allison from the mayor's office and neighborhood services we'd like to unrecord an opposition this is in article 68 we have a policy of not supporting any variances in article 68 because it is the new ascetic district in south Boston we do however want to recognize that the provolren has done a lot of work to generate some support in the community thank you madam chair members of the board John all work from council bill and hands office would like to echo the statements of the mayor's office and go on record it opposition good afternoon madam chair members of the board Ryan Spitz on the office city council are large Michael Flarity we'd like to concur with the district city councilor and remain consistent with our approach and our stance on article 68 which is to not support any variances however we like to mention that the the the land and that's here requesting the relief has to has some serious environmental concerns in which the developer has decided to cap rather than dig and disturb the the actual environment and therefore we believe that those you know those remediation procedures in line has triggered the actual variances that's requested however we like to furthermore acknowledge that we've received many of phone calls and acknowledgements from sub budding neighbors requesting their support for this project we've also you'll hear from specific association and a few other members of the community who are here in opposition but therefore again we have to stay consistent with our approach without a 68 and therefore we cannot support this project this time madam chair thank you for this opportunity to comment on this project Clien Mahoney lower and neighborhood association same sentence lower and neighborhood association excuse me article 68 was the result of nearly two years of constant meetings between the residents of this area and the PRA none of the people who you've heard here speak in support of this elected officials aside to pot many of those meetings for over two years the whole purpose was to set a standard to eliminate the constant need for community meetings to discuss variances mr. Morancy in this under underscores danger in precedence keep citing a previous development up the street is justification for this building when we when we sat down for three years and and gathered our thoughts we looked at every single piece of property up and down for us three we took into consideration that some property was contaminated with that we came to the uh to the zoning rules that were to be high and fast 45 feet on one side 50 feet on the other side we do not oppose variances we support variances when there's a demonstrable hardship need greed as it is in this case is not a need okay i just need to hear about the zoning i don't want okay me am i apologize i apologize article 68 is the zoning that we worked for that the majority of the neighborhood supports i've lived in the same area for 106 years on my family has i reached the point to oppose this thank you very much and 12 over article 68 thank you afternoon everybody uh miche sexton 1185 a dresser street i'm one of the few directive butters some directly behind the building and i'm also trustee of 7789 dresser street so for everybody that in my association that can't be here today we're definitely in opposition to the variances uh something else that was said or that wasn't accurate is the other buildings that went up on our street did drastically increase the traffic on our street and so i do have a couple small shop on that one the way and so them saying that it doesn't increase the traffic on dresser street it will drastically increase because it's become a cup for your street and the sidewalks haven't really been addressed there's telephone polls in the middle of them i'll care if i put you feet or five feet and it's not safe we're constantly having to walk into the street with our children and the more cards that are on there it's very very dangerous so we're definitely in opposition of the variances on this project jaren ciantiolo 83 dresser street director butter also opposed to the variances the two variances while we you know we'd like to see uh development in the area as long as it's built within right otherwise i'm opposed to the variances how many of us Dave de lauri and also a director butter 81 dresser street just like to reiterate the fact that while we are supportive of the development and the developer we've had our good experience we oppose the project as designed given the what we feel to be of region's variances and from the community means what we've learned is the primary driver behind the the reason for the variances and economic impact which we feel is 10 it was the best and sets of bad precedent for other landowners here also we talked about views being impeded which we understand as part of the living in city however the density is a greater concern to us if you're increasing density by 30 percent in a neighborhood that it's already seen this as an issue it's just further exacerbated so again while we support development in the site we would ask that we review as a project redesign thank you if i may not ensure to address some of the previous comments with respect to sacrosanctus of bar i also want to remind everybody that the the height the height maximum is 45 and this project is proposing 50 f a r is two and this is proposing 2.9 that's correct uh i'm sorry uh with respect again to the sacrosanctus of article 68 i recognize we all recognize that this is new zoning um the board this board has granted relief under article 68 from my personal experience i've received my clients have received relief from this board and the matters of 11 doichester street 345d street 890 one east first street um the point is uh that wasn't mine but 621 east first street also received relief from this board but the point is this this is why this board exists to judge projects independently on the merit and on the circumstances of the proposal there's a height violation here of five feet uh that height violation owes to the fact that this is an environmentally contaminated site and it would make very little sense from my client to excavate the site in order to remediate the condition um in such close proximity to uh uh other residents in the neighborhood uh what he's chosen to do is do a a ground level garage i mean otherwise the garage could have been located at under a partly underground and and and the height would be conforming but uh that's not an option here where there's in the environmental condition that really requires capping of the site in terms of the f a r the building massing uh in terms of about the f a r in the height the building massing is remarkably consistent with the developed conditions on the block on the smaller handout that the board members have on sheet a 300 uh there's a very nice overview of uh how this building essentially looks like uh the fifth building completing the 401407 uh west first street project that my client successfully developed and that i don't think has caused any negative impacts uh to this surrounding neighborhood by virtue of the fact that the buildings are 50 feet tall and have approximately the same f a r um uh looking at it as a whole this building is uh consistent with uh with with the massing uh and densities and heights prevailing uh in the neighborhood in on this specific block and again i think that that's why this board exists uh not to say that uh any uh project uh simply by virtue and its inclusion in a particular neighborhood article doesn't deserve relief but to look at the facts of the case and the value and the merit of the project uh in determining whether reasonably requested relief should be granted i believe that that's what we're requesting here reasonable relief in light of uh site conditions and prevailing as built environment in the neighborhood and i wouldn't point out that again in terms of the the uh the people who took time out of the day to come here and test final position um i turned in an overwhelming amount uh of uh of letters uh in emails in support of the project including unadvised by my client five residents of the Dressistreet Association uh in which two uh uh unit owners uh just testified okay um any other questions from the board we have a motion please motion to approve with BRA design review is there a second second all those in favor all right any opposed all opposed all opposed all thank you thank you well we'll write one minute i just have to think this through procedure wise um so there was three in support three opposition so the motion does not care right ten to nine ten to nine so sorry about here we have the recommendations of thirsty nice board at 1010 masab on 922 at 5 p.m i'm calling B.O.A 620672 353 summit street was extension into the basement it was approved B.O.A 618683 11 Trenton street was extension into the basement it was approved B.O.A 614 470 56 mystic street was extension into the basement it was approved B.O.A 616 810 363 three 63 silvers trees was in rare addition it was deferred to the full i'm sorry it was deferred to the 1020 October meeting B.O.A 620 568 6 highly street was the second unit was approved B.O.A 619 468 17 Lyndon street the dormer of rare units in deck it was deferred to 1020 B.O.A 615 854 48 rare unit half it was the second core deck it was approved B.O.A 615 936 645 5 5 5 5 2 it was gas station auto repair vehicle cell it was deferred to the full board of 1018 B.O.A 616 825 25 birch caravrode was a second story edition and it was denied without prejudice they were a no-show B.O.A 618 705 85 duster road was a side yard edition was approved B.O.A 613 942 6 louder's lane was exterior stairs it was also approved B.O.A 6200 868 chest shy street was extension into the basement it was approved B.O.A 615 872 40 road second floor donor it was approved B.O.A 619 276 46 46 Parkland road rare edition was also approved B.O.A 567 761 32 Edison was was extension to the basement was also approved and B.O.A 586 914 gram being way was a add the front porch it was also approved that can make a motion to the court accept these hearing approval I have a second all those in favor any opposed motion carries before we we closed the street I'd like to thank Susan for all the amazing work that she's got do you need to be recognized yes I'm out of chair George Morancy just a point of clarification on the 377 West first street vote there was a motion to approve that was seconded three members voted in the negative I do not recall the chair voting on the record three in opposition is automatic denied for because of five to prevail yes so the chair did not vote that's right thank you to thank Susan for all the work she's done she's staying with the city says you want to tell us what's going on you Congratulations Elisabeth