 you you you you you you you you 340, 360, Boylston Street. Is Boylston Street here? Yeah. Great. Good morning. Good morning. How you doing? Good name and address for the record please. Kevin Rennah from Boylston & Stores, 400 late to Gattanyu. I'm here with Harold Dennis from Truker Company. We're casting one year extension of zone relief for the building at 340, 360 Boylston Street. All right. Can you explain what the need for the extension is? Yes, it's a approved office building in Back Bay at the corner of Gattanyu, Boylston. And long story short, we're still looking for, like clients still looking for a tenant, you know, pounding the pavement every day, but don't have anyone lined up right now. And as Back Off is building in Back Bay, just isn't final at this point. When is the expiration date? It's December 2nd. OK. Motion for extension. Second. Good name. Mr. Staden, I mean, generally we're allowing extension, but one extension. In this economic climate, things have to be ready to go. So what we're looking for, is there a term on the proposed extension? We requested a year. We think we've created a motion. A motion for one year extension. OK. But we would ask that you take this design as comments seriously and get it sorted out in the next year. All vote in favor. Aye. All opposed? OK. You're all set. Thank you. Second case, BOA 475-033108 Greenfield Street is 108 Greenfield Street here. We'll hold that. We'll hold that side. Case BOA 97221 815 East Fifth Street. Name and address for the record, please. Patrick Mahoney of Adams and Marancy for the business address of 350 West Broadway. Refreshing on one year extension. Could you explain the reason for the request? It's for financing, Mr. Relic. So motion to accept. Hang on. You say a little more than that. That's a little big. Oh, certainly. It's a 15 unit project. Right. Excuse me. It's a 19 unit project. And they had to go through extensive designer view in the initial bank that they were using. It's not being used to fund the project. And now they have to go back up without the extension today. It would expire. When would the expiration date be? It would expire today. Today. OK. And are you confident that with your extension, you could get the financing arrangement before it? My client tells me that that's possible. That's why we're requesting a one year extension. OK. Is there a motion? Motion for a one year extension. Second. All in favor? Hi. All opposed? OK. You're all set. BOA 489-875-239 Boston Street. Is O. That's Patrick. Hi, Patrick. Go ahead. Patrick Mahoney, 350 West Broadway. I've added some Marancy requesting a one year extension. And again, can you give the reason? Financing. Give the reason. I thought money was flowing in the streets of Boston. It's a some extent. OK. When would that expire? That would expire on December 19. Take a motion for an extension. One year? One year. OK. Third second. Second. All in favor? Hi. All opposed? OK. Thank you. Calling for all 930 hearings. Looking for deferrals or withdrawals. Very good. We want to call again the extension wasn't here. I'll go back to BOA 475-033108 Greenfield Street. Is Greenfield Street here? I'm still table that, Mark. All right. Hearing for 930. Do I have any withdrawals or deferrals for 930? Hearing none. I'll move forward. BOA 764199 135-139 Border Street. What's it? To change occupancy from offices to an apartment and accessory storage to office and seven apartment complete renovation with new sprinkler system as per plans. Article 25, Section 5, flood hazard district. Article 53, Section 56, off-street parking in sufficient. Article 53, Section 12, dimensional regulation. Useable open space insufficient. Name and address, please, for the record? I'm sorry. I'm sorry. There's a companion case to this. I'm new to this today, so please have patience. Companion case, change occupancy from offices, one apartment and accessory storage to office and seven apartment complete renovation with new sprinkler systems per plan. Violation eighth of the building code 780-CMR-705.8. Open and exterior. Opening of exterior wall. Opening is not allowed in exterior wall with a fire separation distance is less than three feet. Name and address for the record, please. Good morning, Mr. Chair, members of the board. My name is Mark LeCasse. I represent the owner of the property, Boston Realty, industrial trust group. With me is David Schulman, who's the trustee and owner of the building, and, by all broadly, the architect of the project. Shall we start with the building code, if you want? Per usual. So the existing structure has windows on a side wall of the building, which have been in existence since these 1977, when my clients family first acquired this building and have continuously owned the building since then. I've submitted a report from our Code Consultant Building Fire and Access Incorporated outlining that under the International Existing Building Code openings in existing walls are permitted and shall be accepted, provided that the degree of hazard is not increased. And for this particular property, the change of use on the first floor is not increasing the hazard. And then on the upper two floors, we residential, and again, the Code Consultants report indicates that the relative hazard index is not changing. And therefore, section 912.6.2 of the International Existing Building Code is applicable, which simply provides, when a change in occupancy classification is made to an equal or lesser hazard category, as shown in table 912.6. Existing exterior walls, including opening, shall be accepted. And I've submitted the report of Robert Carr's TD Fire Protection Engineer. Mr. President. I have a couple questions for you. This is a complete documentation. So therefore, it falls under Category 3, right? A Level 3 Renovation, which means that everything has to be brought up to code. I'm going to make a motion to 9 Building Code relief. You have the option of going to the state. For the option of going to the state. Second. Second. I'll vote the favor. Five. I'll vote. OK. So that's the Building Code issue. You want to talk about the zoning issues? Yes. So there are three zoning issues before the board today for consideration. The first is, basically, the project is in a community commercial substrates and the proposed use, which is a mixed use, office space on the ground floor, and residential units on the top two floors, the uses are allowed as a right. The zoning issue is related to dimensional and the flood hazards district. The simple dimensional issue is insufficient useable open space. The building is 100% lot coverage. So by creating additional dwelling units on the second and third floor, we simply don't have any open space on the property to create 50 square foot per dwelling unit as required. So we see invariants from the Useable Open Space provision. There is a parking requirement, of course, for the creation of additional residential units. There currently is one residential unit, and we are increasing to seven residential units. But again, the lot coverage of the building is 100%. So there's no possibility of creating parking spaces. On the building, however, is located about a 10-minute walk from the Maverick Blue Line T-station. And there are five different bus lines that serve this part of East Boston. So there are zero parking spaces existing, zero proposed, simply no place to put them. And then finally, the third issue is Article 25 of the flood hazard district. Under Article 25, Section 5, Subsection 4, for preexisting structures, maybe reconstructed or changed, provided that any non-conformity is not increased, and that this coordinate grant, a condition of use, permit for a preexisting non-conforming building. It's my understanding that what this board seeks with respect to existing buildings under Article 25 is to indeed not increase any non-conformity thereby nothing in the basement. No occupied space will be in the basement. And more importantly, no mechanical systems are in the basement, and no electrical panels are in the basement so that we're not increasing or jeopardizing any of the building systems as it relates to the flood hazard. So we would see an additional use permit under that particular provision of Article 25 since the non-conformity with respect to the flood hazard district is not being increased. And those are the presiding issues. I was drawing Mr. Pazani. Drawing draft. All right, questions for the board. Also, Mr. Chairman, we have 20 letters of support from various members of the community. There was no bottom meeting with a sponsor by the mayor's office of the neighborhood services at which nobody opposed the project. So I'd like to submit those for the mayor as well. Okay, please. Mr. Chairman, I want to hear your speaking favor of the project. Mr. Chairman, members of the board, John Ellison, the mayor's office of the neighborhood services on behalf of Hazel Scarcea. We'd like to go on record and support as the proponent stated there have been community process on this and they do have support from the community. Thank you. Thank you, many thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the support. Thank you for the support. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's ready to hear your speaking opposition. I have motion, please. Motion for approval was continued in PGA design review. Second. All those are there. Aye. All those. And then you'll have to deal with the building code. We'll see if we can stay. Yes, understood. Okay. All right, thank you so much. Colin Bio. B-O-A. Okay. This is B-O-A. Okay, sorry. Colin Bio A764198. I'm sorry, I just called that. B-O-A756820. 48-52 Boilstin Street. So, jeans have used from a recreational facility, office and retail to 46 temporary housing shelters, office and retail. The temporary residential unit will be located on floors two through five, selective interior demolition and demolition of two-story portion of the building. Exterior restorations include pointing in window replacement, installation of new MEP, fire alarm and fire sprinkler systems, TWs, cubicles. Fees deferred until, primary ready issued. Violation, article 23, section one, off street parking, off street parking and sufficient. Article 32, section six, G-Cod Conditional Use, G-Cod Applicability. Name and address for the record, please. Good morning, Mr. Chairman, members of the board, Ruth Silman with Nixon Peabody on behalf of the applicant, which is a joint venture between St. Francis House and the planning office for urban affairs with me as Bill Grogon from the planning office and Steve Garvin from Semi-Otis. A few things to clarify, the denial letter was actually incorrect in two ways. This is not temporary housing. This is permanent housing for formerly homeless people. 46 units, it doesn't matter with respect to the uses themselves, but the actual description is, we just want to be clear, this is permanent housing. It doesn't impact the zoning. There is an improper citation to the off street parking, however, and in the appeal, we raise this and we are working with ISD to try to correct this as well. Pursuant to section 38, dash 22, off street parking is not required unless a property is in the PDA. This property is not in the PDA, so we believe that was improperly cited and that no relief is required for off street parking. So ISD said that there is a requirement for how many spaces? It depends on what you do within the PDA. That the off street parking wouldn't be controlled through the PDA. What would it be, that's a nice piece. There is no requirement. In the Midtown Cultural, there's no off street parking or requirement, so there's nothing to cite to in the code. And the letter from ISD didn't cite a certain number of spaces. We did not. No. Okay. Interested your discussion with ISD, are they going to rewrite the letter with RR? I'm uncomfortable with having stated violations. That is what we're having a letter of withdrawal from ISD. We are in the process of trying to obtain that from them. Mr. Chair, may I suggest, in fact, the best course of action for this is a deferral. Okay. Thank you. I mean, otherwise our only alternative would be to go through the process and then hold until you went through that. So we couldn't act finally today anyway. Right, but one of the issues is that since we're already faced with a descriptive change, what was originally put out there to anybody in the world because temporary is not planned. Okay. And then the issue on the property. I would make a motion for the firm. The motion for the second. Second. A little favor. Hi. Hello, folks. Thank you. You want a date? This is what you're supposed to say. Hold on, folks. You want a date? We would love a date. Okay, we get it. How about the January 23rd? So is there, if it's possible, we think we could resolve this. We're trying very, very hard with city money to get to a closing by the end of this year. Could we be on for two weeks, please? I think we have room on the 12th of December. Or, could we do this? We could do the 28th. We would greatly appreciate that. Thank you very much. On 8th of November. On 8th of November, sorry. We were trying. I think it's 11.30. 11.30? Okay. Thank you all for that. Okay. Again, I'm new to this. I keep waiting for people to talk, and it's my job to talk. BOA 7536335 Acorn Street. Give me the final. Complete renovation of all fours, including existing roof deck and roofing. Article 13, section 13, one, dimensional regulations. The new bay on the lower level triggers the rear yard setback. Article 13, section 13, one, dimensional regulations. The reconfiguration of space and additional floor area creates excessive FAR. Name and address for the record, please. I'm Julius Smith on the architect for the project. And... I'm from 27 Gourney Street in Cambridge. I'm representing Karen Domba, the owner, who is resident at 5A Gouring Street. Okay. Could you describe the project and what Gourney Street is? The project is basically an upgrading of the five-story residence. It's a five-story brick townhouse single-families. It's a five-story brick townhouse single-family on Beacon Hill. And it hasn't been renovated for some time. So the owner thought that it was time to do this. And during the course of the renovation, several issues came up which the building apartment flagged as needing zoning variants. Okay. And can you walk through those? The first of those was the extension of the existing Bay, which I can actually show you a little better. Can you see this art? So this is the existing situation in the rear. This Bay window which faces onto their garden has become quite deteriorated over time due to roof leakage. So it has to be essentially restructured, resupported, and reclad. This is the rear elevation we're looking at? Well, it's a side elevation. If you want, I can show you this. It doesn't face directly out anywhere. It faces into their garden. It's an L on the original building. So this is the original situation. So many floors. Is this the Bay window? Right now it's three floors. The owner would like to extend the two floors down to gray, partly because it gives it a better foundation to rest on. And partly because it supplies more light to those two floors and the living spaces. The square footage that the, well, I guess the first thing they cited was the overlap of the rear yard setback. The rear yard setback would come 10 feet into this wing. And so about a third of this Bay extension would be projecting into that required rear yard setback. So the only proposed Bay extends beyond the wall same distance as the old one? It's exactly the same profile, yeah. And what else? And the other issue was excessive FAR in general, which was due number one to this extension of the Bay, which is only 32 square feet, 16 square feet per floor. Headhouse at the roof level, which is to provide access to the stair, it goes down to the fourth floor and up to the roof deck. And the existing situation is a very ancient and somewhat unsafe hatch that just physically lifted to gain access. And it's only 1 foot 9 wide. So it clearly had to be replaced in any case. Because the headhouse projects above the line of the roof, I've had to assign 40 square feet to that as additional FAR. The remainder of the FAR is due to reconfiguration of closet space within the existing outline of the building, which is a requirement that ISD point it out to me. How many units are there? I don't know. One. It's still a family house, yeah. How are the plans that you're designing? Drawing to anything. What are your thoughts to the issue of the house? It's absolutely the minimal that the supply of the slope fell off. OK, but it's fine. Are you sure anyone here to speak and say about this project? Members of the board just saw Gerr with the mayor's office and they heard services. We would like to go on record in support of this case. We held a butters meeting where residents did come out. And if I believe, I'm correct that the director butters were actually in support of this new wall. They said that they liked the new plans. And other concerns were just regarding like parking and other issues related to construction around the area. The Beacon-Oscivic Association is also in support. Thank you. Does anyone here in opposition? I have a motion. Please. Motion for approval with continuing the Beacon-Hill design of people. Second. All those in favor? Aye. All those? All set. BOA, call the next case. BOA 760305, 667-669, Boylston Street. 16 outdoor seating for restaurant filed under ALT 753250. Article 8, section 7 uses conditional outdoor seating as conditional companion case. BOA 760306, change of occupancy to a restaurant with takeout interior renovation and new tenant fitout. Outdoor seating will be filed separately, which we have. Article 8, section 8 uses conditional use item 36A, takeout restaurant is conditional. You, Article 8, section 7 uses conditional use item 37 restaurant is conditional. Name and address for the record, please, sir. Good morning, Dennis Colpita. I'm a general Colpita. And no representing the applicant. The problem is a hero, which is Patrick Cartier from Cava. This is a, the site of a candy court president from the former candy store, Boylston Street. Welcome to the Occupy for Cava, which is a representative of the plan three of this morning, a healthy food alternative with a Mediterranean style through the food world, very popular around the country. This is a site which has been a semi-food use in the past. We are in front of the Naval Association at a meeting which they voted on to post made out which was made out of Naval services, with regard to the various meeting which we did not necessarily decide for present use. And we think we will opposition to these at this time. And as you can see, the outdoor seating is filed separately. OK. You want to just walk us through what the violations are? It's conditioning. Any restaurant in the back there exactly. OK. How are the drawings just designing? To draw your adquery, Cava is named after the Prosecdoe or, OK, you know, a college's Mediterranean or, you know, amatizer and not come in. Cava is, of course. Those things don't go lightly past our archives. No. And there is no license to serve it for someone. Unfortunately, full-time architect parts I'm restaurant acrylic, so. Well, I'll work. One question. How do you view, I see the restaurants, laboratories, and the basement. How do you get access to that? You may have to get back. I do not know. There's a financial, I don't know. There's another. And it may be just a staff lady. There's a staff lady. The seats don't really fall for it. Doesn't say you know access issues cited by ISD. At the Zoom, it's a staff fee only. But many of these places are limited seating. This is staff and there's an alphabet. OK, it's an alphabet. And I did was unaware. OK, does anyone here need to speak in favor of the projects? Chairman, members of the board, just I'll go out with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. We would like to go on record and support. The neighborhood association with the back pay isn't support, and I have not received any opposition from any of the butters. Oh. My name is Martin Retta, and the chair of the neighborhood association of the back pay. We have reviewed this application, and we do not oppose it. Anyone here who's taking opposition? There's more to approve. Motion to approve. Jeff, did they need BPTA design revealed? BPAC pay anyway. OK, so just motion to approve. Second. All those in favor? Aye. I assume that silence goes to silent. As you can see, that's the back. Back to the back pay. Back to the back pay. OK. Thank you. OK, that's good. Thank you. All right, we're here. All right, we're here. Next case is BOA 736317 101 Jersey Street, Boston, Mass, Change Occupancy to add wireless telecommunication facility, install 8 antennas inside a concealment element on the roof of the existing building, and 4 antennas to the facade of the existing stairwell penthouse. Install 21 remote radio head units, and 5 surgerestors on ballast frames of existing roof. Install condenser unit on existing roof, construct equipment room, and vacant space, and building space, and install fiber, and power cabling, install vertical cable tray as more specifically known on the plan submitted with application. The violations are Article 86, Section 6, use and dimension regulation. Any antennas are conditional use in a residential district. Article 86, Section 6, again, use and dimension regulations, insufficient setback from building, and use for residential. Good morning. I would like to describe the project. Name and address for the record please. I'm going to be end of paragraph P-A-R-E-M, and 30 of Brown Brothers here, because of the AT&T 1.8% of Boston passengers. Sorry. AT&T is experiencing the significant gap in coverage in this area in Boston, which proposed the design, which will be which meets with the screening and hemipodging provisions. Few of these sectors will be in full chimneys, so they blended with the building. The third sector will be in an alleyway. There will be a tax to an existing penthouse and payment to match the background. And keeping with the BRM directives, we have 10 feet off the roof edge, and 19 height. So, to keep in with the designs that we've been using, it's similar to a competitive installation across the street. I'd be happy to answer any questions. It's particular, but we're looking to install 12 antennas and provide, however, a service in that area in Boston. What's the material used in the approach? It's fiberglass, but it will be painted and formed so that it resembles a brick chimney. You can look at what the photo-septiceye blends in pretty well. How's the drawings of this designing? Droughts are fine. The 3D representations look as if it blends in very well. All right, next question to the board. Well, I have no one here to speak in favor of the project. Chair and members of the board, just so we're with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. We would like to go on record and support. We did hold in a butters meeting and no one came to it. I have received no opposition. And the Families of Economic Association has also been in support of this project. Thank you. Anyone here to speak to opposition? I have a motion, please. I think a motion to approve with our continued BPDA design review. Second. Second. All right. All right. I'll go to the bureau. Thank you. Can't be there. Calling next case, BOA 727-018. 77 Exeter Street. Change occupancy from a retail store to registered marijuana dispensary interior renovation for tenant fit out. Article 8, section 7 uses conditional use item. Number 39 B, marijuana medical treatment center is conditional. The 77 Exeter Street. I'm sorry, I apologize. The rookie made a mistake. The address is 331A and 333 Newberry Street. That's it, Mark. You should. Just follow and change the table. Sir. OK, yes, sir. All right. So the name and address? Name and address for the record, sir. Michael Ross, Prince Lobel, law firm. Good morning, Mr. Chair, members of the board. I'm here with my client, Compassion Organics, the CEO, Jeff Rallinger, who's also a lifelong resident of the Back Bay and a patient, suffering with multiple sclerosis and went through a life-changing event when he discovered the benefits of medical marijuana. He has not had a seizure since he began taking medical marijuana. We're also at the table with Dan Linsky. You may recognize him. He's the former superintendent and chief of the Boston Police Department. And he's our security advisor and has been with us every step of the way throughout this process. And we're applying, as you know, for conditional use permit for medical marijuana at the end, the last block of new barrier street. Sorry. And it was. We did supplement the record earlier with a memorandum on the matter that goes into much greater detail, but I've provided plans for the members of the board. We've had a thorough community process beginning in July with the Neighborhood Association of the Back Bays Building Use Committee. We then met again with NAB August 9th. It was a follow-up meeting. And then we had an abutters meeting on September 18th, as well. We know that NAB is formally opposed today, but we were pleased that we initially did receive a vote of support from their committee. I don't know what happened to change that. We have made several commitments through this community process. The most substantial is that this will be a medical only facility. That's a pretty significant commitment for Jeff to make this close to recreational starting in Massachusetts, but he made it because he wanted to get there on new barrier street, wanted to get the support of the community. He also has agreed to put police details on Kamal Dabnu Mall to chase after illegal consumption of marijuana, working with the Boston Police Department and with the Amlitsky and other items, like free parking for his patients at a nearby garage that would be validated to try to eliminate any types of use or nuisances of cars or those types of things. We're happy to answer any questions. OK. How were the plans just for the money? The drawings are adequate. I'm going to get out of questions on the board. I'm sorry, I wanted to speak in favor of the project. Chairman, members of the board would like to start off with saying that yes, there has been an extensive process. We did meet with NAB at a community forum, and I also hosted in a butters meeting at the library of September 18. I have received numerous emails and calls regarding this proposal. And at this time, the mayor's office of neighborhood services would like to say that we are simply upholding the city council vote on this case. So we're not taking a position of support or opposition on the actual dispensary. We're just upholding in support. So they are a vote of non-opposition to move it forward. Thank you. My name is Patrick Tiley. I'm a real estate agent in back. I'm reading this letter on behalf of Dr. Richard Adkinson who's testified at numerous NAB sponsor meetings could not make it here this morning. I'm medical doctor practicing in Boston. Can you summarize the, I have a feeling of being number of speakers. Can you summarize it? Yep. So he effectively ties opioid abuse and addiction to medical marijuana as being a positive benefit. So in places where medical marijuana exists, opioid abuse falls. And I think it would be a welcome addition to our neighborhood and the members are directly accountable to back bay as they are residents. Okay. Thank you. Good morning, Chairman and members of the board. My name is Kennell Brumstein. I'm a business agent for IBW Local 103. I'm here to support and strong support of the project. The proponent has committed to one of our, has promised to commit to one of our signature contractors, which means the project will create jobs and include good wages and benefits for the residents of our city. Thank you. Mr. Chairman, members of the board might not be able to represent in the carpenters. In behalf of all our members, the living and work throughout the city of Boston will let the bone record support. Mr. Chairman, members of the board, my name is Anne Hockberg. I'm the attorney for the owner of the building. I just wanted to make a few points in support of change of use. Historically the lower part of the new street has been a unique Boston business area, both industrial retail. It's sort of been the funkier end of the new street. The father, the car owner, the site bought the building in 1962. Previously it was a hardware store and then an art supply store and then a recording studio. There was an article, there was a Boston magazine or Boston Globe magazine featuring this location, 331 newbery street that showed photographs of when it was synchrosound and used by local Boston artists such as Bonnie Raid, Aerosmith and the cars. Record, shake it up there. In any event, we support this use obviously and we think the neighborhood opposition to the use may have the effect of driving out a locally owned small business that has been there for decades. Retail down at that end of the street and in general has been down. This use will, it's better than having an empty store front because retail is down due to e-commerce and other factors. And it's said- I think any zoning issues, I like Bonnie Raid but I think I need to find some zoning issues. Well generally just that there's been a lot of heat generated and not much light among those neighbors who are afraid of it and we would just like to support the change of use. Thank you. Hello, my name is Rex Sebastian. I've known Jeff for years. I've worked for him as a carpenter and I wanted to come out today and show my support. I just offer a voice of someone who used medicinal marijuana to come off of opiates after sustaining an injury about three years ago. I last rated my left wrist. I was on opiates for more than a month straight and then when I was transitioned to get off opiates and basically given a cocktail of non-opiate drugs which seemed to affect my life more than opiates, it was Jeff who mentioned that I should try medicinal marijuana and I can simply say that it was pivotal point in my recovery going through physical therapy and workers rehab and not having a rely on painkillers. Very glad to hear the story. We are focused on zoning issues. For the record you put so your name but not your dress. Rex Sebastian, Salem to Hampshire. Okay, thank you. Thanks for focusing on zoning issues. Maggie, Dr. Huff-Russell, I've worked in international health for 25 years specialized in pharmaceuticals and teach graduate courses on global pharmaceutical policy. 50 common about half, resident of back bay member of NAB. As the attorney mentioned, the licensing and building news committee of NAB did rule in favor of this. It's the executive which we don't understand exactly why it took a stand against it and I've been blind copied on letters from other members of the executive who are actually in favor of it. When I attended the meeting at the public library, it occurred to me because I've attended other meetings where I felt people had a legitimate argument for not having a medical marijuana facility in their neighborhood like Worcester Square. But I think that Newberry Street is absolutely the ideal place for the city to put a medical marijuana dispensary because the issue is that people are afraid because they're ignorant and what we need to do is change the stigma about this and it would not only be accessible if it were right on Newberry Street within a block of the number one bus but it would also help to eliminate the stigma around medical marijuana. I have a colleague at Harvard who has a prescription for medical marijuana and he is still buying in a black market because there's not a safe access place for him. So it's a policy issue. I think the city should take very seriously about where to locate. I want to speak in opposition. And again, I would ask that people use this as a forum for other policies to focus on zoning. Good morning, Mr. Chair, members of the board. My name is Kate Bell. Speaking on behalf of Boston City Councilor Josh Zaykham. After careful consideration, extensive discussion with both proponents and neighbors are all this has determined that this location is not the right place for a medical marijuana dispensary. We believe that such a use would not be in the best interest of the neighborhood. As we promise at the outset of this process, we've kept an open mind about the proposal. We've attended numerous public meetings heard from both the proponent and their supporters as well as those opposed to the project. We really want to commend Mr. Roger and his team for their community outreach and for attempting to reach a compromise with all of our concerned neighbors. But ultimately, after considering all the factors in our opinion, a medical marijuana dispensary is not an appropriate use for this particular block of Newberry Street. We've serious concerns about traffic, deliveries and the precedent that this could set for the neighborhood of the back bay. We do encourage the proponent to look for an alternative location in this neighborhood that does not but residences, excuse me, and is not located on what is arguably Boston's premier retail street. Thank you. But just for the record, the City Council did vote and support, correct? My name is Oliver Kern. I live in the Birch mansion right around the corner from this proposed dispensary. And all my friends and I are against this because it will bring undesirable elements into the neighborhood. And just so you know what I mean, there are army vets with PTSD and we don't want them in their neighborhood. You know, just give me a break. They can get over it. And the second thing is people with wheelchairs, with MS or whatever. I think this is all the zoning issues. Well, I think the third one is women with breast cancer. You know, they always had that cadaverous look and they wear those ridiculous turbines. And for goodness sake, Newberry Street is our high end. It's a high end shopping district. We don't want people like that scaring off the clientele. We got your message loud and clear. Thank you. For the record, Lawrence Estacara, Nixon P.B.D. 100, Summer Street. I'm here. I'm off a number of residents. We have a package that will help to explain some of our arguments going to give my old friend Mike Ross a copy as well. The package includes a letter from Mike Jamman, whose path to Vinnort and Mayhem may not have made it this morning, was on an airplane. Owns property directly across the street, directly impacted, lengthy letters, self-explanatory. This residence here, now this here, you've heard from Councillor Zaykham. And I'm going to focus on the appropriate reasons why the board should not print this relief. And once again, there are handouts which will be more extensive than the presentation I will make. There are confusing messages as to whether this site is in fact acceptable because of the proximity of two locations at the music school directly across the street and the Boston Architectural Center where, quote, children commonly gather. And the regulations issued by the state, which for the time being, are in place until the Cannabis Control Commission issues new regulations specifically prohibit that. So why we are even here given the proximity of 500 feet to two of those facilities is an appropriate question. A young man who took lessons at the page music school which won the best music lessons for kids for private group lessons, spoken one of the public meetings. And we have an after David from a young lady who attended the architectural college, diagonally across the street. This is a different location than the 21 Milks Street downtown which this board approved where there are not children commonly gathering in the center of the city's commercial core. And there are various regulations back and forth, one of which says they'll defer to the board, which I expect is why we are here. Now we're standing other regulations that suggest a location such as this does not pass muster. And the Cannabis Control Commission is in fact in the middle of an extensive discussion among the issues before them is co-location of recreational medical and they pursue into the changes in the state law will have total control over this. And once again, there's lots of information about that. But the real issues are issues of real estate and issues of use. And anyone familiar with the back bay understands what it was laid out was laid out in a grid. Beacon, Commonwealth and Malibur was strictly residential. Boyleston was strictly commercial, especially given there were railroad tracks on the other side where potential is until about 55, 60 years ago. And Nobri Street is a mixed-use street with some commercial and some residential. And many people living above the store. And these blocks further out towards Mass Avenue, in many cases were carriage houses, small buildings where some of the folks in Commonwealth Avenue would keep their horses. And it has become a residential street above and a commercial street. So we believe the first criterion for the granting is that the new use will not in fact be more detrimental or objectionable than the current use. We believe it would be. And we'll explain the reasons. Can you explain them quickly? Sure, absolutely. We think it will adversely affect the neighborhood because of the difficulties with deliveries on narrow streets and an alley. Cash and product has to be delivered via our own trucks. Credit card transactions are not acceptable because the banking system, federally chartered banks cannot deal with marijuana dispensaries because the federal jurisdictions on the Control Subject is act. And we think that there will be hazards of pedestrians and vehicles. Even now on Nobri Street there are Uber cars with lights flashing, blocking that part of Nobri Street day in and day out. I was there at 11.35 on a Sunday morning was almost impossible. And these are people who are not going to be browsing with neighborhood stores. They're going to be coming for a specific reason and going to be in many cases probably double parking to do so. We believe that we're in an interesting place in the city's history given that smoking tobacco and smoking marijuana are illegal in most office buildings, most retail locations in apartment buildings, in most condominium buildings. And therefore we question where people will consume the product perhaps in the alley. And we think that the specific location, because it is a carriage house protected by the Back Bay Architectural Commission, in fact it's not an appropriate facility because of the inability to have the access, the Sally Horth so-called like entry system called for and the inability to have major changes to the outside of the building because the architectural controls. All right, thank you very much. I think there's a number of people in line. We have a long agenda today and I would ask that you be respectful. Mr. DeKarra talked about the issue of deliveries, hazardous to pedestrians, basically it seems like a problem of location. If you don't have anything new to say, please put your name and address in the record and state your opposition and that's it. Thank you. Thank you. My name is Martin Ritter, chair of the neighbourhood association for the Back Bay. Unfortunately at this point I do have to correct a grossly distorted version of NAMS position and the process by which we arrived at it that has been presented by Mike Ross and unfortunately by one of our members. The licensing and building use committee of NAMB did not vote to approve this application. He voted not to oppose the process going forward. Had we not done so at that time when a lot of information that we have since been able to get access to was available to us, the process would have been stopped and we felt that was unfair. Subsequently, the executive committee of NAMB and this has been explained to our member voted to oppose the application. Now why? Because in fact of information that we received and opinions based upon the regulations that govern the location of marijuana dispensaries, specifying a distance requirement or buffer zone so that most children will only come into contact with or notice his operation rarely and fleetingly in passing by just as when they pass by a liquor store. In contrast, given this location, many children will be regularly indeed several times every day permanently and inevitably exposed to its impact. So now given the basis of NAMB's reasons for opposition, an application for a medical marijuana dispensary at a more suitable location in a commercial area not directly a butting residences would well be viewed in a very different light. Nevertheless, the neighbourhood association with the back bay respectfully urges the board to reject this application for the reason that I have given and that has been voted upon by NAP after receiving a lot of comments from residents at the meetings that were held. Thank you. Thank you very much. The additional piece of information was about a proximity of children on that that brought it before. If you don't have anything new, please take your name and address it. My name is Susan Baker and I live at 457 Beacon Street near Heriford. I'm a member of NAP's executive committee and I am involved in planning and organizing events for children in the neighbourhood. My son's 13, he walks by the proposed location twice a day to get to the MBTA hind stop to go to and from school. Hundreds of other kids will be exposed on a daily basis. It's this location is just too close to the residential area. It abuts the residences on ComAV and we have over 1,500 households with children in the back bay area and despite the buffer zone regulations, children who reside nearby will regularly come into contact with the dispensary. We just don't want Newbury Street because it directly abuts the residential neighbourhood to be a destination for people to come and procure marijuana and I urge the board to reject this proposal and ask that the applicant seeks a more appropriate location in a commercial area that doesn't abut the residential one. Thank you. Thanks. My name is Bruce Jacobs. I live at 9X Street in the back bay. We have four young children who go to school within about a thousand feet of the proposed location. I just would reiterate the importance of considering the impact on children and also the impact on the community. Back bay is an important community. It's one we want to foster family saying in this city we want to encourage people to visit the city and I think this proposal location is exactly opposite in every regard so respectfully ask for your consideration. Thank you. Thank you. My name is Marvin Wool. I'm a physician who lives in the back bay and I'd like to remind everybody that we're talking about a medical marijuana dispensary, not a recreational marijuana dispensary. One of the key arguments that the applicant has made is that he will not, he will not convert the medical marijuana dispensary to a recreational marijuana dispensary. Testifying and supporter of it. I'm an opposition because a section of the lease which he has signed and I'll read it to brief. If at any time during the term lease he elects to discontinue the use of the premises for an R&D and to use the premises solely for the non medical that's recreational use of marijuana, the base rent, etc. The applicant has continually pledged that it would only be a medical marijuana dispensary. The information here belies then pledged. Thank you. Thanks. Again, please. Please be brief. I'll be brief. My name is Lisa Barth. I live at 356 Commonwealth Ave. I park in the alley directly behind where the proposed dispensary would be. I have a six year old daughter and I don't want it in my neighborhood. Thank you. Brian Barth 356 Commonwealth Ave. I'm opposed to it. Thank you. Sam Perry owner of 327 Newbury Street. I've been a resident of this box since 1946. You have my letter which is going into a lot of the information here. I came to the first meeting sponsored by NAB and then later the city's meeting to learn. I do not oppose the idea of dispensary as such. I do think there are real problems here and I think one of them is the absence of regulation. I've noticed it on the Milk Street on the Patriot Care one that a community host agreement was negotiated to try to protect the area. I think absent that and the fact that at the first meeting it was stated by Council Ross that the emergency dispensary would be restricted to medical only and at the second meeting it was stated no they couldn't accept that restriction. I think there are problems here and there should be protections for the residents. And I should also point out that this is a residential block. This is not all commercial. There are residents across the way at 324, 326. I think I added up 80 residents within that block. Okay, thank you very much. In order to take the time we ask the applicant to respond to some of the issues. Briefly, some of the issues in particular about the question of it being only a medical marijuana dispensary is supposed to recreational the issue of children and neighborhood deliveries and blocking its wreaks as with the pedestrians that people drop coming by. Thank you Mr. Chair. The applicant is 100% in favor of being medical only. If it pleases the board he's happy to have a proviso to that extent attached to the license. There is no bait and switch or any of the conspiracy theories that he's trying to do something else. He has said all along that he will do medical only. There is a loading parking space in the back of the building. It's not required by this project but we are using it for loading and that's available off the alley. The loading off the front or double parking. I mentioned of course the parking at the garage that will be validated. There is a debit card. Debit cards are allowed in the dispensary so it's not a cash only operation. And there was some numerous comments about this being a nuisance which does go to the zoning standard about crime and those issues. I would just ask that former superintendent Dale Linsky just give a quick 30 seconds on that. Chair and Chairman, I have reached out to every police chief who has a current medical marijuana dispensary. They have been announced that crime before and after there has been decreases in crime in the areas where these dispensaries are. They are not designed so the development know what they are that no signers who goes on it. In fact, two police departments have taken police details that they are initially put on for fear of challenges in the liquidation. What? We will work extensively with my team to not just secure the facility but we have a process of a program in place to do enforcement with the law enforcement police in and around the area. Any patient who violates and uses that product anywhere but their home will no longer be a patient of our facility. I can show you that my intent might take a rare result. Proof the water life that I could involve with that it might tend to go forward if this project succeeds and we go forward. I have some of those things put in writing and give it to the neighborhood about some of the provisions. As a matter of fact, in your packet there is a letter written by Dan Linsky where we, just for the protection of the individual, we did black out the name but we stand by that commitment. It was an offer to provide and that would be under tab 10. That was in the original packet. I sent you the thicker one. I see that a few of you do have. It's a letter from Croll and it puts that into writing that we will do police patrols as well as other items to several pages. Crolls are also happy to have that included. I have a question. One of the hours of operation. This is 10 a.m. to 8 p.m. If I could add one other piece, over the last 20 years, teen use has been declining steadily. Colorado is declining even faster. So as more states come and bring medical marijuana or even recreational marijuana, miraculously teen use is not going up. It's going the opposite direction. Just a fact to bring the conversation. I do have another question. Mr. Linsky, can you explain to me how are you going to work the police details and how you are going to collaborate with the Boston police? We're going to have a police detail that works with us. We want to check with the community to see when the best times are when the most impact in the event is we understand this already is a concern with use of marijuana and other items on the Commonwealth Mall. We would hire details that we would pay for. We'd offer tire at one overtime if the PPD would allow it to make it a assignment that they would always fill. But that depends on their staffing level. My staff would work with PPD to go out and control the neighborhoods. The PPD would take a forceman action. We would be able to identify anyone who was a patient of ours that was impacting the neighborhood negatively. We would go back and remove them from the roles of different trust paths. And we would supplement PPD's ability to control the neighborhood with additional controls that currently they don't have the schedule. What about the concerns about the children in the area? If I may take that. This is a common concern that's been lobed at pretty virtually every dispensary. The location he's questioning we are well familiar with, I think in his own comments he may have inadvertently discredited this issue by describing it as private lessons. Those private lessons take it out of the realm of a place where children commonly gather in a consistent and regular manner. There is a testimony of the family in the neighborhood. Sure. I mean, the mere presence of children who live or walk by or near would not exclude these because there wouldn't be one anywhere because children live everywhere, children visit everywhere. I mean, when you dive into the regulations, it will say, talk about how ice cream places and things like that, just even though they gather for birthdays and things like that, don't constitute a place where children come together. We're talking about nursery schools, we're talking about schools, those types of things. The new regulations even back off from that. They only go to schools. They've gotten rid of this kind of messy area. And finally, there is another agency that looks at that. It's the Boston Public Health Commission. They have regulations that they promulgate that speak to the children commonly gather. I don't think the intent was ever that the zoning board of appeal wrestled that matter. I think it's always been intended that it go to the public health commission. Yeah, I want to give this forward some zoning issues. I just want to, if you could address the pedestrian, the traffic issue. I think somewhere in the documents, I see it anticipate about 350 visits per day. And just explain how that is managed. Sure. Since that is a concern. Sure. 350 visitors per day, spaced out over the times of 10 AM to 8 PM is substantially less than virtually anything on that street. Starbox or a clothing store are into the thousands. The average time per patient is on their first visit, probably about 15 minutes, maybe 20 at the absolute most. On their all subsequent visits and many repeat is more like 10 minutes. And so over the throughput of the day, it will appear not busy. And as we also mentioned, we're going to have parking available. Our customers will be repeat customers. They will know they can park around the park. So as much as it's required, we have an agreement within the summer second garage, which is in the same block or within a block away. And patients will know they can park there for free. Come in by their product and then leave in that same parking. Now, is this by a wait-minute or is this just a take-home trip? They come whenever they are available, which is- I have to interfere. I'm trustee for the summer second garage. No arrangement has been made. We've finished taking public testimony. Sorry. Do you want to speak in favor or opposed? I'm opposed to it. And I also know that absolutely no arrangement has been made with the summer second garage. I'll come back whenever it's time. No, go ahead. But say your name and address for the record and very quickly the reason for your opposition. I am Dr. Patricia Brown. I own 50 hair for street, which is a half block from 331. I vehemently oppose this facility. I have been trustee for 18 years, never missed a meeting at the summer second garage. Absolutely no one has asked us. First of all, it is a owner, occupied building. We have very few spaces. We could never commit to that. If you can give me the name of one individual that okay this to you at this moment, I'll listen. But I know better because I have been there for 18 years and I've never missed a meeting. Okay. Thank you very much. Thank you. That's not even- I just can't believe the bringing this up. Okay. The lock from there is my office, 396 come in with Avenue. I am an orthodontist and I know the age group that is in that area that they want to bring this. Most people are under the age of 21. This is a very bad area. Okay. Thank you. Just on that point. Thank you, Dr. Conj. Yeah. The applicant did speak to someone named Joseph who's at the garage. We obviously aren't going to contract with them until we're approved here. I'm not sure what level of interaction the board gets from these types of queries. We are 100% committed to offering free parking. There are many parking garages in the area. We're happy to have that as a stipulation on the zoning. Okay. Any other questions on the board? Can I have a motion please? Like to make a motion to grant the only request with following devices that it is absolutely restricted to medical marijuana on it. We change an act where required coming back to this board. That prior to signature, we need a document that outlines the parking and the commitment made for the whole signature that is provided to us. Anthony, can I ask a question of that motion? Do we want to tie it to a certain amount of spots? Do we need 10 spots, 5 spots, 3 spots? I think you can say a minimum. I don't think it's. Any 10? We have a potential garage. We have a parking. I'm asking you a motion. Anthony, do you want to add that? We will add for 8 minimum of 10. I would also suggest that the document is finally talking about having a general safety plan. Mr. Lensky, so the community can know you're going to make commitments and make promises. They can hold you accountable. I think you'll have them. Second. All those in favor? All those? Thank you. Seeing that we're running a little bit behind, at this time I'm going to call for any deferrals for 10.30. Are there any deferrals or withdrawals for 10.30? Please come to the microphone. Before we start I'm going to call, I need you to call the microphone. The podium. Excuse us. Excuse us. Please move out. Thank you. I'm actually going to call for 1-8 Greenfield Street. 1-8 Greenfield Street. Are you here? Yes. Come forward. I apologize. I'm going to take 1-8 Greenfield Street first and then I'm going to ask for deferrals or withdrawals. B-O-A. I'm going to call back into record B-O-A 475-053. 1-8 Greenfield Street. Asking for extension. Good morning. Happy new year. I'm actually not representing, but here to speak on the cap. They're not in Spain. Basically what had happened. I guess they had granted before the construction, but he was waiting. He didn't understand fully the process. He was waiting on his architect and by that time when he went back, he was ready to build. The certificate was expired. So we had... It's already expired? It's already expired. expired this year. What? When? August of this year. So when we went in to, finally, spoke to a couple people. I spoke to a couple people because he didn't know what we was doing. He went to 1010 and they had told us that we had to write an appeal to get an extension. Okay. The extensions are granted, ignoring the term of the permit. Of the permit, correct? Right. But not after they've expired. Okay. He wasn't aware of that. He was under the impression that he had a way for his architect to get back to him with paperwork. Yeah. Can I have more complete? What kind of project is this? He's basically living an extension. He wants to bring his daughter back into the home. And honestly, what they had told them from my understanding was that the staircase is just a little bit narrow. It's like they have to extend it like one foot more in order for it to live down illegally. Really? We're granted by the sport. Is that correct? I'm assuming yes. And you have a double permit. Is that correct? Correct. So it's expired now. He was under the impression that his architect was going to do everything. He has since lost contact with his architect. So how does that cause a couple of things? I'm just going to go forward then without an architect. Well, no, he has all the plans and everything that he needs to build. That was approved. I'm going to make a motion to grant an extension for three months. And why this time is going? Is there any way that we can do at least six months so we can... No, no. Because you can move to the following line. Three months. Second. Okay, this motion is done for three months and the second, a little favor. Bye. Also, just understand that it's permanent and expired. So it's only for granted. We're just going to grant one. Okay. Thank you. I'm calling for extensions or... Calling for extensions for 1030. I'll withdraw all the thralls for 1030. Could you draw off the 1030? Yeah, can you give me the address, sir? Two addresses. 88 Pierre Street and 71 Davis in Street as well. Okay, so we'll call into record. Davidson's the first one I find. It's 71 Davidson Street. BOA number 663803. And how can we help you today? Well, I'd like to withdraw. We found out just last week. These two are related because what we're doing is subdividing Davis and... Exactly. ...into two parcels that exist in two families on some... So the companion cases? I'm sorry? The companion cases, sir. Yes. Let me call in the record BOA 66379988 Pierre Street. Okay. So you want to withdraw both of them? Yes. The related. 71 Davidson is a two family. A large parcel was subdivided in the parcel. And what if for the owner who lives in 71 Davidson can... ...destruct a two family on 88 peers? We just found out just last week. Glad to part of the week that there's opposition from two groups. We had we were run aware of. We had a butters meeting. I thought it was quite successful. But because of the lateness of the opposition, we want to go back and regroup and meet with these folks. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. It maybe makes a major change. Okay. Motion for withdrawal. Thank you. Second. Hello, the mayor. Hi. Hello, folks. Okay, you're all right. Sir, name and address? The record. 402 Warren Street. 402 Warren Street. BOA number 744-379. How would that be for? Is there a companion case, sir? No. Sure. Well, that was seven. There's two of them together. I'll call that into record also. BOA 744-378. And BOA 744-379. Companion cases. You're looking for deferral, sir? Yes, we are. Is this your first deferral? Yes, it is. What's the reason for the deferral? Well, we haven't had a parking situation. Finished up yet. We're still working on parking. Okay, we have January 9th, sir, available. Is that work? Yes, great. January 9th. I think I motioned to apologize. I apologize. I voted for her. Second. I can't hold on to the favor. I vote for her. Okay. And the truth is, we're going to give you a date. January 9th, sir, at 11.30. Okay. If we can go back to 25 DryDark Avenue, BOA 76020. I'm waiting for you. The purpose of this is a no work. Change of use includes fitness center, gym for the public. And first and second floor, gym construction occurred under permits. ALT 709 412 and ALT 709 414. Space to be used for employees only until change of use is accepted. Article 8, section 3, conditional use, private club conditional. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, members of the board. I'm Michael Bond. I'm here on behalf of Reebok and James Town. I'm from 19 DryDark Avenue. I'm here with Keith Wrexelblatt and Austin Malo. Reebok. I did a date of talk to you about the innovation design building. James Town, in the last, since 2013, has invested $140 million in the building. You can see window replacement elevators. The whole thing, if you haven't been down there, strongly encourage you to come visit. In doing so, they've attracted a host of great tenants, auto desk, continuing mass challenge, America's Test Kitchen that have all moved in in the last couple of years. This year, we were fortunate enough to sign Reebok up to move the headquarters from Canton. We moved 700 employees and a 200,000 square feet. Great facility. It's mega space. It's the design space, innovation space, without a good working relationship with our landlord, the BPDA. Reebok has been a wonderful addition to the Rae Quinn Marine Park. As part of their development, they built a gym, which is approximately 30,000 feet. It's opened to their employees. We're here today to ask for relief to allow to be open to other tenants of the innovation design building. We've met with the self-host and elected. We've met with the Rae Quinn Marine Park Association. We've talked to John Allison from New York's Univered Services, and we've included a letter of support from the BPDA. So, I respectfully ask your support for this week today. But it's not open to anyone from the outside. It's open to tenants in the innovation design building. It's Reebok's gym and then other tenants in the building. So, if you look at the soft left arm, it's not open to anybody from outside the building. Sir, a cross associate. It would be between $200 and $300, depending on what services you select. Okay. Mr. Pazani, how's drawings? Grindrad. All right. Anyone here to speak in favor? Mr. Chairman, members of the board, John Allison Mayors, Office of Neighborhood Services. We'd like to go on record and support. As the proponents noted, they have met with and received support from the businesses in the area. Thank you. Mr. Chairman, would you like to go on record and write to our representative, Carpenter? Do you know what I'd like to go on record and support? Anyone here to speak in opposition? Any questions or more? I have more to ask. Motion to approve. No handrys on. Is there a second? Side down. Call the speaker. Hi. Call the vote. Thank you very much. Thank you, sir. Thank you very much. Walk. I apologize. Calling the next case. Call the next case. BOA 754 680. Headhouse addition. Article 68, section 6, dimensional. I'm going to go on record and write to our representative. Call the next case. BOA 754 680. Headhouse addition. Headhouse addition. Article 68, section 6, dimension of requirement. Side-sepback requirement is insufficient. Article 68, section 8, dimensional requirement. Mayor Yards, section 8, section 8, dimension of requirement. Floor area ratio is excessive. Article 68, section 8, the mention of requirement, height requirement is excessive. Article 27, S, section 5, south-boss and iPod applicability, iPod applicability. Article 68, section 29, roof structure restrictions, roof structure restrictions, restricted district. Name and address for the record please. My name is Bethany Dutel. I'm the architect for the client. I'm Andrew Samavera and I'm Chelsea. William Davis, property owner, 1773. I'm sure as I work with Bethany, I'd be too long to answer. OK, would you like me to describe the particular the proposal and what parents are you seeking? Yes, currently there is a headhouse that exists on top of the building itself and the stair with the stairs. What we're proposing to do is to renovate that stair and house, keeping the stairs as they are and then you come up adding a small room with a powder room with the deck. So if you have a mortgage, it's a happy good house. What's the size of current headhouse? Current headhouse is about 8 by 8. And then proposed? And then proposed goes from the side of the house to the side of the house, which would be 20 feet wide. And then we're coming forward. The headhouse is on the back of the house, the back right corner, the left corner. And we're bringing it forward on 5 feet dead in the old house. OK. How's the plan for Bethany? Drawings are adequate. How many units is in this house? Three. And would this deck be accessible for all units or just the third floor? Just like I actually did. Third floor. OK. No, that's not clear. Why is it this simply a fourth floor addition? I don't know. It's nice. Check it. Well, they were cited for height. So I think it was interpreted as a fourth floor addition. Because as you know, what penthouse, if it's less than 1 third of the roof area, it doesn't count towards height. So if they were cited for height, I'm assuming that ISD said that it was a fourth story. OK. OK. So it's just a matter of a different height. Yeah. And it's the height of the proposed headhouse, same as the height of the existing. It's 2 1 1 half feet higher. So right now, it's got a 7 foot ceiling on the stair. But it only has like 2 by 6 little beams. So we were going to raise that so that we have an 80 foot height when we come in. And of course, the beam, you know, today is a lower or lower part. That gives us the tan. So we have an 8 foot ceiling. It's down to 7 foot ceiling. They were here to speak in favor. They were here to speak in opposition. Mr. Chairman, members of the board, John Allison Mayors, Office of Neighborhood Services. Because this is within the Article 68 zoning, we cannot go our record and support the variances. But in this case, we did have a very successful butters meeting. This is a good project that will keep a long time family in the neighborhood. And people were very supportive of it. Thank you. Mr. Chairman, members of the board, Paul Sullivan. We have to account for the live Michael Flarety. Due to the efforts of the community that have went into drafting Article 68, the Council at this particular time cannot support the project. However, it would defer to the board's infinite wisdom on this project. It's in for the bill, Paul. It's in for the bill. It's difficult. I can't wait for next. This is good. OK. It's so hard. Any questions in the board? I have motion, please. Motion to approval. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Is that good? It's not good. Sure. OK. 30 seconds. Second. All of them favor. Aye. All of them. Provides all three questions. Thank you. Thank you. Calling in the next case, POA 7520. I'm sorry. 7520309. Renovated existing three family row house as per plan submitted. The violations are Article 27S Section 5. South Boston iPod applicability. Name and address for the record, sir. Patrick Mahoney of Ames and Marancy with the business address of 350 West Broadway for 169A 169EI Street. The proposed project before you is a renovation of an existing three family. It got renovation and as a result of triggers the interim planning overlay district, which is conditional use. It is entirely dimensionally compliant. There are no projections or additions with the exception of the rear enclosed porch, which is already counted as FAR as it is in a closed porch. We'll be finished and heated and cool, but it does meet the FAR of 2.0 according to the plans. What you have is the cover sheet before you with the zoning and then a sample layout plan and a revised plan has been submitted to Mr. Pazani. How many units? There's three now and there will be three when it's completed. And then you can access to the basement. Yes, there is existing access from the rear. I was able to hear a speaking favor of the project. Mr. Chairman, members of the board, John Allison Mayors, office of neighborhood services. This was cited only under the iPod. We are able to support it. We did hold on a butters meeting and there were no objections raised. Thank you. Anyone here to speak in opposition? I have a motion. Please. Motion will approve. No, sir. No, no BPD. Second. Second. All those favour? Aye. All those. Okay. How are we doing with our friends in the back in terms of timing? The break, we all said. Okay. All right. Let's take a five minute break and let's really try to keep it in the board. The board will adjourn and come back in 1105. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. We're going to call our next case. BOA 759918. The address is 2969 Washington Street. The purpose is to add dwelling unit at ground level. The range occupancy from three units to four units per plans. Permit to be submitted upon ZBA approval. This is one of the four main structures on the lot. The violations are as follows. Article 50, section 43. Off-street parking is insufficient. Article 50, section 29. Dimensional requirement. Lot area ratio. I'm sorry. Lot area dwelling unit in sufficient. Article 50, section 29. Dimensional requirement. Floor area ratio. Excessive. Article 50, section 29. Dimensional requirement. Usable open space. Insufficient. Name and address for the record, please, sir. Thank you, Mr. Chair. That was a board. Jeff Drego. We're turning for city realty. Business address is 15 broad street. Drego, in the stano. Here with Josh Federman. Now, we can't knock the queue from June associates. Purpose of today is to seek zoning relief at 296. Seeming Washington Street in Roxbury. We're looking to change the occupancy from the three family to a four family building by legalizing a garden level apartment. On a bottom level. Excuse me, that's I should have been 581 square feet with a ceiling height of nine feet, four inches. Two means of the address. The building is currently fully sprinkled. And that will continue down into the garden level. As I mentioned, this area is a multi-family residential. So this garden level apartment is quite common in this section of Roxbury. We had a sponsored a butter meeting. There was no opposition. Nothing but support that we have heard. Our violations are all pre-existing. The only one that's increased is the FAR going from 1.78 to 1.88. And obviously parking is one per unit. The building was completely gut renovated a few years back. When my clients purchased it, it was a really rough shape. They cleaned it up. They do so. I can pause now to answer any questions. When you say garden level, I mean, it's really, it's well-great, right? It's 89% above grades. That's just another picture. The grade drops considerably from street level to the rear. So on the back, it's above grade. But on the Washington Street side, it's below grade. So I see a sort of eyebrow window. On the front. Yeah, on the front. And then as you go to the back, the grade drops down. I can pass this to the board. This would be the floor level in the rear. So it's about four feet above grade as you get to the back of the building. The building is behind the corner of the carpet. The building of the cancels are the kind of assuming. Is that correct? I think that as you can access to the building, the stand goes without having to go. Correct. So the building's already been renovated. So what has the space for you to support? It's just empty. There's a few water tanks and the sprinkler mechanical. So there's an area at the front of the building where its most below grade will remain for utilities and sprinkler room access from the front common area. The unit would be a one-dead throw. I have the utilities are accessible by all units. Yes. There's a separate stair that goes off of the stair that provides access to the intended unit. The container unit also has a stair to the rear. The mechanical room can be accessed without having to go through the unit and can be accessed by to the body. Does anyone here to speak and say a room for them? Good morning, Mr. Chair. I'm the Chairman of the Board. Josh from the Fed and Mayor's Office and I have a service that's like to go and break into support of this project. We had a good of others meeting. The individuals who did show up, they weren't supported the project as well. And as of that, we're supported the project. Anyone here in opposition? Any questions on the board? We have motion to post the truth proof. Sorry. There's no need for an assignment to go on the area where it fits. All of the favour? Aye. All opposed. Thank you. Okay. Calling our next case. BOA 740342. 36 Kushinav. Change occupancy from a three family to a four family with two proposed off-street parking. Extend living space and additional four dwelling into basement. Construct new side entry porch. 65 section 41 off-street parking and loading requirement. Insufficient off-street parking and inability of maneuverability. Article 65 section 8. Use regulations. Multi-family dwelling is forbidden use. Article 65 section 8.2. Use regulations, basement units. Dwelling units and basement of a bin in the door chest and neighborhood district. Article 65 section 9. Additional lot area insufficient. Article 65 section 9. For area ratio excessive. Article 65 section 9. Side yard insufficient. Article 65 9.2. Location of main entrance. Within the residential sub district. The main entrance of the dwelling shall face the front lot line. I'm going to call for name and address of the property but after that I'm going to recuse myself. Good morning Mr. Chairman, members of the board. My name is James Rudser. My office is at 546 East Broadway in South Boston. Sitting to my right is Robert Dougic, Federico's trustee of the 36 Cushing-Aff Realty Trust. A trust that was originally created by his grandfather. We're seeking the requested variances in order to essentially legalize a use that has been on this property since 1936. Mr. Federico's grandfather bought the property in 1953. At which time it was a four-family home. There are records at ISD that show that back in 1936 it was converted from a private hospital to a four-family home. At some point in the 90s Mr. Federico's grandfather stopped using the property for any use. And therefore that non-conforming use as a four-family was considered abandoned. The boys have, this is a house that their father was brought up in. They've already done the renovation of the existing three units and they intend to live there and reside in the community. We've had a chance to present the plans to the Jones Hill neighborhood association and one of their meetings. And we received unanimous support of the association who were particularly enthusiastic about the quality of work that they undertook and the fact that they intend to reside there. Are there any questions from the board? Mr. President, how are the drawings? Drawings are adequate. Any questions? Any board members? Anyone here who's speaking favor of the project? Mr. Chairman, members of the board, John Allison, mayors office of the neighborhood services. On behalf of Flavio DeVega, we'd like to do on record and support. This has been through the community process including getting a unanimous vote of support from the Jones Hill Civic Association. Thank you. My name is Nadine Fallon and until recently in September I was a director butter. On Mount Firm Mount Cushing Terrace I recently moved there but I'm now at 26 Peral Street, also on Jones Hill. And they do beautiful work. It's a beautiful property. And I think that this will be an addition to the neighborhood. Thank you. And we're here speaking off the issue. Hello, I own a two family on Mount Cushing Terrace. Can you put your name on the record? Yes, it's Kelly Thomas at 10 Mount Cushing Terrace. While we admire the work, clearly there's a high quality of work that's being done there. We oppose the use of the basement for an apartment because as the zoning code states that the purpose of the residential subdistricts is to maintain enhanced and promote the character of residential neighborhoods in terms of density, housing type and design to provide for low and medium density housing appropriate to the existing built environment. So the existing built environment is primarily two in three family units. All of the houses have basements. And so what my concern is, and my husband's concern, and my neighbors at 8 Mount Cushing Terrace and equally at 11 Mount Cushing Terrace were concerned about increased density in the neighborhood. We believe that the zoning codes were established for a logical reason. And as I understand it, in order to obtain a variance, one must show special impeculeous circumstances or conditions of the land of building, or in reasons of practical difficulty and demonstrable and substantial hardship, and that the granting of the variance will be in harmony with the general purpose and intent of the zoning code. Also, I'd like to say that we're very concerned about parking in the neighborhood. Recently, another butter at 15 of a Mav submitted a petition to obtain residential parking stickers. Because in the past few years, the amount of vehicles in the neighborhood has increased substantially, and so the residents are having trouble parking. So we're concerned that more people. Thank you. Do you want to respond to issues of the park? If I may, it always was a four unit building. The only thing that we've done is change the configurations of the unit so that the fourth unit, instead of being a very, very small attic unit, is more of an appropriately sized garden level unit. And we've accomplished that by doing excavation that creates parking spaces that never existed on the property. So it's not a true basement. It's a walk out because we've created, we've reconfigured the existing unit, and then also in the process created parking for the neighborhood. So I think the ceiling height and mechanical room is real. They're all greater than adequate. All right. Is there a, can I have a motion? No. No. Motion for approval. No, there's somebody. Do you want to speak as well? Yes, I'm sorry. All right, please come up to the microphone. Put your name and address in the record and briefly. Susan Byers-Paxen. I live at 19 of my avenue. I have lived there for 30 years. I have a prepared statement that I would be happy to give you all copies of. If you could summarize it when you're free. I will try and I apologize if I'm redundant because I only heard the very end of what you had to say. I am also speaking about the parking because when I first moved to the neighborhood, it was much less dense. There were probably maybe one or two cars per building and we're talking mostly three-deckers, family occupied with extended families. Now, 30 years later, it's all condominiums. Every multifamily house as it becomes available is turned into more condominiums. And no parking provision is made. They obviously have been obtaining variances of their own which allow them to build for instance, number 40, Cushing Avenue, the mansion, six units, no parking, plus they turn their side yard into two units with only one car per unit. Although most of these condominiums have two people and each one of them and each one of those people has a car. The parking is now a nightmare in the neighborhood. The number seven up on Avenue, a two-family house converted to three condominiums, six people, six cars, no place to put them. The strand when it's in operation and of course we love the strand, it's beautiful. Every neighborhood used to have one. We still have ours. But there's no place for these people to park. They take our parking places because there's nowhere else for them to park. So when we come home, there's no place for us to park. And now this gentleman, these people, they already have three units in a house where one guy is lived forever. That means there will probably be six people and there will probably be six more cars. Now they want to add another unit, two more people, two more cars and they are only putting two parking places. There is no parking to be had and you can't just say well the plan is to make this a walkable, agreeable neighborhood where people will just wander about. But the truth is that we don't use the commuter rail that they're talking about, about fixing up. We don't go over there. Everyone I know and I use the red line to get about. And the only way to get to the red line is to either have someone drop you off or take a bus and then a train. When the train and the bus schedule becomes so onerous that it takes an hour to an hour and a half just to get to and from work, people are going to drive and you're not going to, you're not going to disabuse them of the notion of having a car. But when you continually set aside what I had understood to be a 1.5 to 1 ratio of parking spaces that are supposed to be allowed per unit. And this is continually set aside so that the most three recent developments in our neighborhood, six units, two units, three units, a total of two parking places for all of those units. Everyone else is on the street. I can't even begin to tell you about street cleaning. On the OA, 761601, 54 Pleasant Street, new construction of 17 residential project, existing structure, out of be raised and on a separate permit. So we have a companion case. Violation, Article 65, Section 65, dash 401, off street loading requirement, non-proposed. Article 65, Section 39, screening and buffering, non-proposed. Article 65, Section 41, off street parking and loading requirement, insufficient parking. Article 65, Section 42, applicable of dimensional requirements, conformity with existing building alignment. Article 65, Section 8, use regulations forbidden. Article 65, Section 9, dimensional regulations. Number of allowed stories has been exceeded. Article 65, Section 9, dimensional regulations, insufficient side yard setback. Article 65, Section 9, dimensional regulations insufficient. Front yard setback. Article 65, Section 9, dimensional regulations. Max allowed height has been exceeded. Article 65, Section 9, dimensional regulations. It's excessive FAR. Article 80, design review process has been approved. Name and address for the record please. Attorney John Fulgini, 10, 4 of his road, Braintree, good morning. With me this afternoon is Steve Sousa, who is the architect on this project, as well as Joey Akhara, who is the owner. So the proposal before you is currently, the parcel is currently the Scully Trias Funeral Home on 54 Pleasant Street. The zoning in the neighborhood is two family 5,000. The proposal is to build 17 condominium units with 20 below grade parking spots in 10 enclosed bike spaces. The lot size is 14,688 square feet. There will be 9, excuse me, 5 one bedrooms, 9 two bedrooms, and 3 three bedrooms. We went through a very lengthy community process, actually just coming up on a year. As Mr. Galvin had stated, this is a BRA Article 80, and it was approved by the BRA Board back in September. How is it going, Mr. Zany? My traffic. Any questions from the board? I do. Councilor, can you read to me again? 5 one bedrooms? Yes. Excuse me. There is going to be 5 one bedrooms, 9 two bedrooms, and the 5 one bedrooms are going to be square-fledged, 760 square feet to 960 square feet. The 9 two bedrooms will be 960 square feet to 1135 square feet, and the three bedrooms will be between 1500 square feet to 1600 square feet. These are condominiums. The project actually started as rentals. It was a much more dense project at the time, but through the community process they requested that they change from apartments to condominiums, and we did that as, you know, negotiated through the process. So the BRA, there will be two affordable units. In addition to that, Mr. Buzani has also been a $20,000 commitment to several groups, Project Deep, the Bird Street Community Center, at whatever school, and Dodd-Ark. And also a representative of the one bedroom and one bedroom. That is correct. I'm sorry, I missed the two move. There is. Is that $20,000 total or $20,000 fee? It's $20,000 total. So it will be divided up between those four organizations, $5,000 per organization. There's 20 underground, so this is actually the parking is contained not only under ground, so it's there's 20 spots. And there's one access point. There is. Through an existing curb cut that's currently on the property. And we're here to speak in favor of the project. Morning Madam Chair, members of the Board. My name is David Carter from the Mayor's Office of the Eboid Services. We'd like to go on record and in support of the project for that. You should do it. Forget what to say when it's not Madam Chair. Mr. Chairman. Chair, I'm here because City Councilor Frank Baker's office, would like to go on record and support today. Mr. Chairman, members of the Board, Paul Sullivan. We have City Councilor Elijah Michael Flerty, Councilor DeGroreco, and support. Nadine Fallon, 26th Peral Street. I'm just in disclosure. I'm also a real state broker that has an interest in this project happening. But as a neighbor, I'm also in support of this project. Mr. Chair, members of the Board, David Orinean, behalf of City Councilor President Michelle Wu. We'd also like to go on record and support. Hi, my name is Elizabeth Gouperi. I live at 46th Peral Street. I'm a direct butter to the project. I'd like to stake my support for the project. Julie has been very helpful in changing the design in order to give us more setback from our building. She's been really helpful and considerate and made two adjustments, which was really excellent. And I think the project is a beautiful development. I think it would be a catalyst for more development for the area. I think we need more people to come into this area and get businesses and restaurants. And I would like to see the whole area moving that direction. Thank you very much. Mr. Chairman, members of the Board, Joe Castro, 22th Taff Street. I also have to disclose that the financial interest is a real turn in this project. But as a resident, I also support this project. Anybody else? Anybody? Pick it up and pick it up. Bruce Schatzlill, 26th Gramps Street, Torchester. We just saw a number of people speaking support, which clearly demonstrated the steam rolling tactic that was used by this developer impacting meetings and other things. My issue, however, I posed this project strongly on the basis of density. It started as 21 units, 1 to 17. The comparison to use for density are questionable. The only one mentioned public meeting was an ashmont, which is a mile and a half away. This is a family neighborhood with large lots and two and three family homes. This board approved a three-decker across the street with strong support from the neighborhood of in the last year it fit in. At 125 Stotens Street, which had been visible site of this building, which was not considered in comparisons, this board turned down and proposed by David George to develop 12 units in 2010 on its 9,000 lot. It approved two years ago building six units on that lot, which have been built, in which in full closure, I helped with historical park, because it was the colonial county of the property. That building is an insight of this location. It was supported and met all the requirements that were required in this board supported. I cannot in good conscience see how our city, so our city, Councillors and other people can support a density busing project like this with a process on this board. If you approve this process, it will be a time and a half to density. You'll put you approved by some block away. I don't understand it, and I urge you to oppose it. I'm going to direct a letter to the property. I also oppose this in regards to the density. The lot is owned for six units altogether to my understanding, and 17 is far too many. We're worried about cramming more people into the neighborhood. We're worried about becoming South Boston. There's a reason I bought in Savin Hill, and they're trying to change the nature in the character of the neighborhood. Thank you. Hi, my name is Sonja Kishuba. I'm a resident at 37th Pearl Street. A few houses down from the proposed project. I've been helping since January of this year organize the neighbors to keep everyone informed, try to help spearhead educating people who weren't aware of this project. I submitted and was copied on multiple emails that was sent over to the board of appeals. There are over 25 official comments that I was copied on, multiple other emails and mailed letters that I do not have copies of. I also shared a petition with 126 people who signed opposing this project, mentioning that they are not comfortable with the size and scale of 17 condo units as a group. We have come together multiple times as a butters. We had Councillor Frank Baker joining us at the church that's directly across the street from this development. We have been told time and time again that the concerns and the opinions of the neighbors does matter. However, at the BPDA, they threw away our petition with that 100 signatures at that point. At this point, it has 126 and continuously growing. We've been going door to door with flyers and every time we go one street further from the project, there are at least five to ten neighbors who were completely unaware of the project and are shocked by the size and scale of it. I want to go on the record that the petition, even though the location, somehow from change.org, which is the website I used to create the petition, lists locations other than doorchester. They're not accurate. I have a printed copy here. I'll provide you and I've made some notes. Thank you. I've made some notes on people that I know live directly across the street around the corner and on Pleasant Street. I'm not sure how the website pulls it, but I urge you to not dismiss the results of the petition because the 126 neighbors are from door to door efforts and people that we're walking their dogs and we're unaware of the project until we've let them know that. Can you hand the materials to the question? Thank you. Good morning. My name is Ana Cardona. I live in 43 Pearl Street. I am not as polish as I should be to approach you, but I just wanted to present to you a vision of local zone in my street. During the winter time, we lost a lot of space to do snow because there is no word to put the snow. There have been fights between neighbors because of parking spots. It's already very crowded. It's already very night-mere to be there in the middle of the winter. And with this huge project, which is a beautiful project, I love to build and I will love to see a building like that instead of a funeral home. But all of these people are going to have guests. 20 parking spots, one on front of the other, are not going to alleviate the parking needs of these neighbors. I love people. I love diversity, but we are already crowded. I went to see a house per se and by accident, it happened to be a house next to where the mayor Mari Wells lives. I close my eyes and I say, why can my street look like that? Is it too much to ask to have my street looking the way the street where the mayor lives? It's a beautiful street that is plenty of parking. It's a dream. It's a dream that I cannot afford. I will want to stay where I'm at. I don't want to be pushed out of my neighborhood. The people that are doing these projects, I would like to touch up on their heart. I know they have a lot of money. I don't have that kind of money to fight against it. All I want to do is present to you our reality right now. We are already at in trouble. Thank you very much, God bless you. I just was going to finish my comment. I gave the copy of the petition results and some of the emails. I just wanted to mention that the underground parking is tandem spots, which I think is a little misleading because the tandem spots one and the other. Anyone who knows that knows that the first person in, they're not going to get locked in and they rather take a street spot. I think the concern is about density, overcrowding, cramming to many people and then cars where every unit has one to two cars. If there's 18 spots, we might have 34 cars added to this area. Just to kind of leave you guys with a few thoughts, we did win the vote opposing at the Columbia Seven Hill Civic Association meeting where the opposition we were majority against this. And as I mentioned, the BPD threw away the petition results, but that's not accurate. And you know, a state on the zoning board website, codes keep developers from creating buildings that don't fit a neighborhood or cause disruptions. For example, zoning code allows a homeowner to build an addition, but doesn't allow an auto body shop to open in a residential area. So I ask that you please kindly review all of our comments and please take into strong consideration before cruising this project. Thank you. Hello. My name is Eileen Boyle and during the start of this process, I was president of Columbia Seven Hill Civic Association. So I met with all of the abouters and the developers during this process. One of the things that's disappointing is that from the very beginning, Council Baker and BPDA repeatedly told the abouters that this slot was only zone for six units. And I did that belief they were willing to go to nine, possibly 12 units during the conversations with the abouters. But for whatever reason, you know, they have stuck with the 17 units. This law here also at one of the meetings where the BPDA had attended, I specifically asked Mr. Campbell about Article 80 in what that meant. Because one of the civic associations concerns is that directly decide this lot is another lot. So Mr. Kairi bought his law for $1.6 million directly beside that at the corner of the only street in Pleasant Street is a lot that we believe is going to be sold for $3 million. Does that mean that that person gets, you know, 30 units? So, and I asked Mr. Campbell, I said, you know, under Article 80, what does the BPDA do? What does that mean? Does that, do they look at the surrounding watch? Do they look at the area? Do they understand? And they said they do not, which I don't understand that. Like one of the frustrations with the civic association is that there's no urban planning being done. That these buildings are being erected lot by lot. And this lot is in a thickly settled family orientated neighborhood. We don't have a problem, you know, along Dorchester Ave at the corner of Freeport and Hancock Street, the dog block. We don't have a problem with that. This area here needs to stay more residential friendly. There's a school across the street and we are terrified now that this adjacent lot is now going to be developed. Thank you. You get it? Okay. But also, unfortunately, during this process, the abutters were also tow. When the BPDA had their hearing about this project, someone from the BPDA office, I will not name that person, I will tell you, you know, told the abutters that they should not attend the hearing because it was just for the developer. And we know that's not true. We're focused on art. Any questions or comments from the board? Can I have a motion? I'll make a motion to approve with continued BPDA design review. Second. All those in favor? Aye. All right. All right. Thank you very much. I want to push the phone back somehow. Turn around. Yeah. We'll never get out. Next case. Read the next case. B-O-A-75662-A-16 Clayborne Street. Purpose of one off street parking with purple curb cut. Article 10, section 01. Limitation of area of accessory uses. Article 65, section 9. Dimensional regulations. Usable open space insufficient. Can I please have your name and address for the record, please? Yes, good morning. My name is Caesar DeSolva. Here representing our mayor of Osaka. And we are here before you today. Appealing for the variance on article 10, section 1. Limitation of area accessory and uses. An article 65, section 9. Dimensional regulations. We, my client is proposing to put a one off street parking for the reason that the mother-in-law here are handicapped and have to park so far away and walk to the house. And we come before you to help us grant curb cut in ones off street parking for the family. And we have a plans and the letter from the neighborhood. Excuse me, can I? Is the curb cut now street parking? It doesn't exist. Now we're proposing the curb cut. No, no, I get that. But what I'm asking is that you're essentially replacing one street parking opportunity with one off street. Two or another off street. They could mainly for the reason of handicapped. Madam Jim, members of the board, Bob, the MECO BTD. I have reviewed this and we came on as an political policy approved a curb cut taking away parking. Because there is parking on this side of the street as there is in front of this house. The only thing that's sort of odd is when I went on the computer, I noticed that there was an HP parking space in front of this very house. And if it's gone for some, for some reason, they can always reapply and get an HP parking for the applicant. The issue is exactly that. That's a replacement of one to one that's the finalization of the public way. So, say that is there a handicapped spot in front? No, that isn't. It is. Is there a handicapped parking here from my tenant? She passed away. Actually, the husband and wife passed away. So, that's the reason the handicapped spot there. I already talked to Carl Citi, I talked to Mr. Favio to remove the handicapped spot there. Why not now keep it? Doesn't your mother-in-law qualify for handicapped spot? No, she's not a qualified for the handicapped. I never applied for it. And she didn't qualify for it. She's not really handicapped. She's 81 years old. Sometimes, I took with the hospital, I'm a wife-ting with the hospital. We go grocery shopping, come in, no parking in the street. We got packed far away in the wintertime. I would suggest the best way to do this in the packers. What an handicapped spot. Mr. Pazani, my point of view on this matter is that they invested on that street by a house. Having off-street parking or somebody else's parking, there are visitors and strangers. And the owners of the house cannot benefit and off-street and people, neighbor, or let's say visitors have more benefits of parking. Then they do. That's that I don't understand for me why. I'm not a unusual person. One to one, greater. And the poor does not grant one to one. Does your taking one off the street? You're privatizing the public way. The scent, we can park two cars there. But we just, because it's tight, we showed one park, but we could park two cars in there. Because that's going to be fine. What? Mr. Chairman, I'm sorry for the voice. I'll pop the mic of each of you again. I suggest that they go up to the persons with disabilities office and discuss this. They'll give them an application. They can free, they'll plead their case. And the doctor, all that's going to sign off on it, that she needs this parking space. And they would be glad to approve it. Councillor, we have driven by the property. Okay. There's a gate allowing people to park there with no curb cut already. The picture that's online shows that there's a car parked illegally there now. That's why we like to legalize it. Make it better. Yes. But the rules are no parking in that front yard. What we see here is somebody parking. You then come to us and you ask us one for one to take one curb cut off the street so we can park one car in there. We're not going to take, we can't take one spot off the street so that you can have a spot in the driveway. It's just not the way it works. We'd like to be helpful to this alternative that you can do. But you're saying if there was two parking, then there would be okay. No, it's not. Yeah, if there was, there would be okay. It would be a different discussion. Okay. A different matter. Okay. It's anyone here to speak and say a big brother. Mr. Chairman, members of the Board, John Allison, mayors, office of the neighborhood services, on behalf of Flavio DeVega, we'd like to go on record and support. Thank you. What's the city's condition around? So I understand the objection to one for one. Flavio told me that since this would be providing off-street parking for a person who does need a space close to their house, the obudders are generally supportive of it. Do my kids warning those to property? Yes. Yes. I understand that. I understand that. Yes. So there is a lot of support from the neighbors. I do have a letter of support from them. Mr. Chairman, members of the Board, John Skiens, District Force, the Council, and Jury Campals Office, we would like to go on record of support. We received a letter from the nearby Civic United Neighborhood Association in support of this project. Anyone here who's speaking up with this one? I'll enter the motion denial. Second. All the favor? Aye. All the vote? Excuse me. I would encourage you to try to work with the city together and get the parking spot in front. Okay, thank you. Thank you. At this time we're going to call for deferrals or withdrawals for 1030, I'm sorry, 1130. Are there any deferrals or withdrawals for 1130? Patrick Mahoney of Adams and Marancy, then I address the 350 West Broadway, deferring Cummings Highway. Okay. Motion for deferral. Motion for deferral. I'm sorry. All the case, I apologize. Sorry. B-O-E 757453653 Cummings Highway. What's the reason for the request? The spare request from the community, although not related to zoning for an engineering report, as it relates to the ledge, we've reduced the unit count based on their feedback. And I believe we're nearing the end of the community process. This did kind of come out of left field, but we are responding quickly to them and at their request they're requesting deferral this time. How much family do you need? A month. December 12th, work council? Yes, that'd be great. Well, we have to vote on it. Okay, there are motions. Motion to defer. Second. Second. All of the better. All of the better. Yes. Thank you. Thank you. 90-102 Tenian Street in Dorchester. Calling B-O-A-K678-32290-102 Tenian Street. Jeff Drego, Drego and Descono, and Adres of 15 Broad Street. We're seeking another deferral on this particular matter. It's a billboard matter. There's been some changes up at the B-P-D-A that we've been waiting for. And we want to now move forward with an butter meeting. We would ask if possible if there's that December 12th date for hearing. If that is available, we would love to have that. Thank you. Thank you. Something a motion for deferral. Second. And that December 12th date is available. Council. Thank you. 1130. Thank you. Calling last call for deferrals. Oh, it's Rawls for 1130. None being heard. We'll get back to the business at hand. Okay. 289 Adam Street, B-O-A-7663-747281-289 Adam Street. Change of use and occupancy from 22 apartments, full retail spaces to 22 apartments, two restaurants, a beauty salon, one after school learning program, and a retail tenant. Fid out to be performed by others on separate applications. Article 65-8 conditional after school program is a conditional use. Article 65-8 use regulation. Nail salon is conditional. Thank you. Mr. Chairman, and the board. My name is Mike Fuzh, representing the applicant. It was me, B-Tran, who is the owner of the commercial condominium unit that the change of use is being applied for. This is a new construction building that was completed last year. And there are four commercial condominiums on the first floor that were approved as retail, as placeholders until we found out who they would be sold to. This is the last unit being sold, and the applicant has a recent agreement with the KUMON after school learning program for a portion of it. And then they would like to retain the other portion of this unit for a beauty salon services. There is actually, for this use, it would be its reduction in the parking requirement, so there's no increase in parking from this change of use. There is obstruct parking, and the after school program is a paid service where the children would be dropped off for the class, and then they would be picked up, and there's a space inside where they would be able to congregate before after class, and wouldn't be anyone outside. And they would be a good use for the neighborhood to increase street traffic, foot traffic, and provide services for the community. Okay, so I need a little clarification here. There are four commercial condominiums. Yes. Okay, and two restaurants are already in the group? Yes. And then, so this proposal is for the other two stations? Yes, this one is for, there was one larger space. This is the largest of the condominiums, and they weren't able to find a tenant to occupy the entire one, so this is to subdrive that large unit into it. So now there's one additional use. Okay, that's what I'm talking about. Yeah, I was adding that up before. That's right. So the one retail use is now being changed to at the school learning in beauty salon. So it's just one. Does that mean there's still another kind of medium to medium to medium? No, this is the last one. What's that? Yeah, no, this is the last of the condominiums to be sold to the last agency. Okay, maybe I'm going to take you. So there's two units left, which I want to give you a salon in after school learning programs, so that's just two. There's one condominium that will be subdivided, physically subdivided. Okay, so that's the fourth. There are one of them is being retained as retail. Okay, and that doesn't require any variance. Correct. Okay, all right, thank you. I know. Okay. How many square feet is the total unit? How much? 3,472 in the after school in the 2006. How many kids do you anticipate having the after school program? So on the objection that we put in place is 36 capacity including staffing for the 36 capacity. 36, which including staffing as well. And that's not all one time. 2006, 2006. 2006. 2006. That's not, I don't believe that's all at one time. There's two classes. It's one. Two days a week. There are classes. So what any one, any one is the most that will be in that space at any one time. It's around 10 to 15 students at the one time. But there's a schedule so one hour at the 15 students. But next one hour at the 15 students. But we have like around 30 chairs. Any questions from the board? Mr. President, how are the drawings? The drawings are adequately clearly shows the larger space subdivided into two subspaces. Okay. And what are the requirements of working for this? For educational, for other educational, it was one space per thousand square feet. For retail, it was two per thousand square feet. So for that portion, the private drops. There are 14 off-street parking spaces provided for the building right now. And hold the bill. And are some of them dedicated to this space? They're dedicated to the businesses, very business hours, into the apartments during off-after. Is there anyone here who's speaking support of the project? Mr. Chairman, members of the board, John Ellison, mayors, officer, neighbor and services. On behalf of the club, we'd like to unrecord in support. There is support both from the abutters and the fields corner of civic association. Thank you. Mr. Chairman, members of the board, Jim McGeck, Ronson, City Council, Frank Baker. We'd like to go on a record in strong support. Mr. Chairman, members of the board, Johan, Schien, Stoester, C4, City Council, Entry, and Campbell's office, we would like to go on record of support. Mr. Chairman, members of the board, Paul Sullivan, we have the Council of Aquamanical Flarety, Council of the Go Reckons of Board. Mr. Chairman, members of the board, David Orineum, behalf of City Council President Michelle. We'd also like to go on record in support. And we're here to speak it on the nation. I'm going to have what age kids are in the after school program? Around four years old to the high school age. And anywhere else in the board? I'll make a motion to approve. All right. We'll go on record. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. Thank you. Calling BOA 7-4-3366-13-19 Mill Street. Deck replacement per architectural plans. Work being done at 17 Mill Street. This is existing two-family dwelling. Article 9, section 1, extension of non-conforming use, extension of a non-conforming use. Name and address for the record please, sir. David, 17 Mill Street. I'm the owner. If you just grab the project question, then why do you need a variance? Yes, we are removing an existing deck on the side of our house and the intent is to replace that existing and expanded along our exclusive use space to the rear of the property. The height of the deck about the green is what? Two feet. Okay. This one, why it wasn't just as bright? It was deemed an expansion of a non-conforming use because of the nature of a multi-family unit. So this is a three or four times that we've been managing on the existing deck? Yes. How are the drawings of this design? The drawings are very nice. That's what caused the question. I don't know why it's not what that is, just landscaping. And I can't hear you. Is it covered? No. There will be a piece in the back that will have a trellis over it. But it's not covered. Then we're here to take a fair with the project. Good morning, Mr. Chair, members of the Board. My name is David Codd from the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. I'd like to unrecognize the support of this project. I held in a butters meeting on-site in which all of the butters and attendants expressed their full support for the project. I want to also present to the Claim Point Civic Association who voted to support the project as well. Thank you very much. Anyone who's seeking opposition? I have a motion for this. The bus short approval. Second. No, almost a favor. Aye. Okay, you're all set. Thank you. Call the next. Case BOA 758-332-97R Child Street. Legalize a carriage house as a single-family dwelling. This has been an existing condition for many years. No work to be done. One of two structures on the same lot, number 97, is a two-family dwelling. The violation does follow is Article 9, Section 2, nonconforming use. Number 97, change the size of a lot existing, nonconforming, two-family. Article 69, Section 30, application, dimensional requirement. Two or more of the main dwelling, sorry, two or more main dwellings on one lot, 97 and 97R. Article 69, Section 30, application, dimension required. 97R conformity with existing building alignment. Article 69, Section 9, dimensional requirement. 97R, excessive FAR. Article 69, Section 9, dimensional regulation. 97R, insufficient lot width. Article 69, Section 9, dimensional regulation. Number 97, insufficient open space. Article 69, Section 9, dimensional regulations. Number 97, insufficient rear yard setback. Name and address for the record, please, sir. A joke in solvo, union construction. 647, Boyleston Street, Boston. Okay, Ms. Kuzalvo, can you just know a quick way to tell us what the application is for? So, basically, this is my parents' home. They passed away in 2014 and 2015, and getting ready to clean up the property. We discovered that the carriage house that's been in the back for as far as I can remember, back to the 80s. So, 35 plus years was never legalized. So, the application is no work to be done. It's been there since as far as long as I can remember. What is it used for? A single family. It's always been in the parliament. Pardon? The carriage house itself. Yes, it's always been a resident. Okay. As well as the main house in front, right? And the main house in front is a two family. Again, that was never legalized. I did file that, so the two family in front, the permit's been issued, and this is to clean up the third unit. Okay. How long have you been done, Ian? Dr. Radickard. If you have paid taxes on how many units? Okay, my sister's take care of that. I can't answer that. But you're saying there's basically free units there. Yes. Over 35 years. I don't believe I have that. My sister was going to come but didn't make it. Okay. As everybody here is taking favor of the project. Good afternoon, Mr. Chair. Members of the board, Brian Flynn with the Mayors' Office in Naples and Services. We'll go on the record and support of this project. contingent upon that there's no additional work being done. And if I was being was held, and there was no opposition from the community, we're going to go on record and support. Thank you. Good morning, Mr. Chair and members of the board, Walter App White, Councillor Tim McHottie's office. We'd also like to go on record and support. Mr. Chair, members of the board, David Orinium, behalf of the City Council President Michelle. We'd also like to go on record and support. Mr. Chair and members of the board, Paul Sullivan, behalf of the Council, Michael Flarey, and Council Member of the board, who are we going to support? Anyone here are not officially. Any questions of the board? Motion to approve. Second. Thank you. Hi. Opposed? Thank you. Calling number, calling our next case, BOA 7213916R Alvincencer Terrace. So, installation of a hundred foot chicken coop in rear yard of house, Article 55 Section 8 use regulations, use accessory keeping of animals forbidden. Name and address for the record, please. Lori Pace, six Alvincen Terrace, do you make a claim? Okay, you want to tell us what you're planning? Should I move these up to? Yes, you can. Oh, can you move your clothes? So, the plan is to put in a nine foot by six foot coop in the backyard. It has an enclosed five foot by three foot living space for the chickens. So, then the whole extra space would be their run on the front. The property in the backyard. We have three four chickens. This is the variance per Article 89 allows up to six. But, will you be keeping them for my children are interested in chickens? So, more pets and raising them as animals and the eggs would be a side product. No roosters. Yeah. For Article 89, there's no roosters are allowed in the city of Boston. The whole structure is enclosed in hardware, which is fine chicken wire. The coop will be constructed from fiberglass or poly- like a plastic. So, it can be cleaned with chlorox and sanitized. We're only interested in three or four. Article 89 allows up to six. So, if it did get past, but we don't want six. Article 89 isn't it? Oh, yeah. So, basically, you guys, this is just your God and Variety chicken coop? Yeah. Any questions on the board? Just one quick question. The illustration on the front. Is this your yard? This is actually a picture from the Internet. This is the plans. I purchased. I have not built it until I get in front of it. So, will there be a barrier between you and your neighbor? The whole yard has six foot fence around it. Does anyone here have a specific support of the project? More names to chair and members of the board. Alexandra Valdes, mayor of the office of the neighborhood services. We did Helen a butters meeting and everyone was very excited and in support. Jamaica Plains owning also made a approval. So, I would like to go on record to support. Madam Chair, members of the board. Madam Murphy from City Councilor Maddo Malie's office. The council would like to go on record in support of this project. Is there any here opposition? What's the plan of the board? Well, as a 50-year resident of Jamaica Plains, I'd like to make a motion to grant the week for the rest of the day. And I would like to say. Thank you so much. Okay. Okay. This is calling the next case, BOA 742-797-28 Cedarwood Road. The violation, I'm sorry, extend living space on attic from storage space to living space, adding dormer windows to existing roof on east side, adding skylights at west side roof. Replacing pull-down second floor, ceiling entry to attic with stairs from second to third floor. The violations are Article 55, Section 9, floor to area ratio. Name and address for the record please. James Kennedy, 28 Cedarwood Road on the owner. And with me, the person who did the drawing, solution, a layer, and contractor, Jim Britain. And we'd like to write the project. Yes. So we're refinishing the attic. We're doing an internal stairway from the second to third floor, kind of partly knocking out a wall. And then using closet space to go through that room. So that we're putting dormer windows to make it a more comfortable space in the attic. Our interest is just an extending living space for guest space, studio space. We have three granddaughters who visit regularly from Michigan. We have a lot of different types of summer camp. For example, we'll put their bunk beds up there. So I have a butters meeting, September 12th, and there was no opposition. And I described that people who attended in a sheet given to you. And then got unanimous approval of the Jamaica Hills Association. And also the Jamaica Plain Neighborhood Council's zoning committee. And I've petitioned my neighbors about three times. So they've either expressed support or have been silent. Okay. That's what's on the other drawings. Drawing's right. And then we're going to like to speak in support of the project. Greetings to chair members of the board. Alexander Valdes mayor's office neighborhood services. I would like to go and record to support. We held in a butters meeting on site and other neighbors were in support as well as Jamaica Hills and Jamaica Plain Zone and Council. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board. Madam Murphy from City Councilor Madom Alley's office. The council would like to go on record in support of this project. Mr. Chair, members of the board. Paul Sullivan. We have the City Council of Lager Michael Flarey. Councilor Deorek in support. Anyone here who's speaking opposition? I have a motion. Second. All in favor? Aye. All in favor. Thank you. Calling our next case, BOA 719-034-79 Lyndon Street. Change occupancy from a two family dwelling to a four family dwelling with four off street parking spaces. Also to construct a new addition in the rear yard. Renovate the existing construction. Existing structure. Article 51 Section 8, use regulation, multifamily dwelling for bitten. Article 51 Section 9, dimensional regulation. Law of the area in additional dwelling units insufficient. Article 51 Section 9, dimensional regulations. Lot with insufficient. Article 51 Section 9, dimensional regulation. Floy area ratio excessive. Article 51 Section 9, dimensional regulations. Useable open space insufficient. Article 51 Section 9, dimensional regulation. Side-eyed insufficient. Article 51 Section 56, off street parking and loading. Off street parking insufficient. Name and address for the record, sir. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, members of board. Jeff Trayho, Trayho and Tuscano, and Mrs. Sanders of 15 in Rodged Street. Here representing the Shawty Federalman, Mrs. Delty, and Tanya Carrier from Health Design. We're here seeking zoning relief at 79. Linden Street, in Austin. The proposal is to change the occupancy from existing two family dwelling to a four family dwelling. With four rear off street parking spaces. As part of that proposal, we're looking to construct a new addition in the rear. Complete gut renovation of the building of interior and exterior and what the adding space is in the back. This particular area is a zoning sub district 3F 4000. A lot size is one of the larger ones in the area of 5,799 square feet. Even with the addition, we'll still have a setback of over 47 feet in the rear. There's a commercial structure in the back of us. There's no residential housing in the rear. But we also provide, which most of the folks like, floor off street parking spaces now have a driveway on the left hand side. We'll just give you an idea of the units. Unit one would be a duplex unit and basement and first floor. A ceiling height would be 7 foot 6 in the basement. That would be a 1,398 square foot unit. The two bed, two bath unit, two. Also a two bed, two bath, 1,400 square foot unit. And then unit three and four. Each unit, 1,581 square foot, three bed, two bath, and 1,379, three bed, two bath. We did receive the ACA's rules. Support on this proposal as well as very successful but butter's meeting. At this time, I can applaud and take any questions for the mayor. On the current units, Rappler or Fertzail? Currently there are rental units proposing upon an aid. Any questions in the room? How are the drawings? Dr. Attica. I wanted to speak with them in the project. Mr. Chair, members of the board, Warren Riley, mayor's office of the neighborhood services. We would like to go in record and support. Good afternoon, Mr. Chair, members of the board. Daniel Bologna, behalf of Councillor Marxio, I know like the also low record and support. Thank you. Mr. Chair, members of the board, Tony Tizadoro, representing the Austin Civic Association. We'd like to go on record and support. I'm going to make a motion to approve with continued BPDAA design review. Second. All the bill. All right. All opposed. All set? Thank you. Thank you. Okay. 1130 rediscussions. Do we have any deferrals or withdrawals? I know I called for them already, but I might as well ask again. Okay. Our first case is six long terrorists. BOA 585-3-8. I'm sorry. 585-382. So, combined parcel ID number 2-009-196-00 with 2-009, 555-00 to wreck the single family hall. Framing plans to be submitted upon ZBA approval. Article 56-6-8. Residential sub-district dimensional insufficient lot size. Article 56-6-8. Residential sub-district dimensional insufficient front yard setback. Article 56-6-8. Residential sub-district dimensional excessive FAR. Name and address for the record, please. Fiona Duncan-Five-Charlie and denim. Okay. Remind us why you're back here for reception. We have done some adjustments to the plan and we have a .39 FAR now. Which is one of these. We have copies of the revised plans. So, the last time you modified the plan and the review of that earlier. Yes. Okay. I can respond to the manager. Yes. Well, we had some of our meetings and they were concerned about the size of the house. So, we reduced the height. They were also the length of the house with a bit large. So, we reduced that by some feet. We have offered to change the design of the home. But they said that that wasn't an issue. Okay. So, we reduced the height of the house from 27.5. It's now 25.8. We reduced the length of the house off the right side fence. It was almost 13. Sorry. It was originally just 10 feet, three inches off the fence. And now it's almost 13 feet. We offered to take away the two car garage to reduce the size. But they really wanted the two car garage to allow parking in the garage. And then we also would have parking outside the garage for guests. So, there wouldn't be an issue with on-screen parking at all. And we've looked at all the houses in the neighborhood and most single. You still have a garage for two parking spaces. Yes, sir. And now, pardon me, outside of the garage. There is space, two parking, we have guests that we're not blocking the driveway. The long terrace, which is the dead end lane. Just to be looked around the neighborhood and a lot of the houses, single family, similar to what we plan to build, are on small lots. A lot smaller than ours actually. What is that? 5,522 square feet. 5,522 square feet. Right, right. They're on here to speak in favor of the project. We have a letter from River Neighbors. Good afternoon, members of the board. Jack Doug in Neighborhood Services. Just like to go on record and support. This project's come out to the neighborhood a few times. Most recently in September in front of the neighborhood council. They voted all of someone's support of this proposal. Thank you. Anyone here who's taking off the position? Good afternoon, Michael Brady, six long terrace. I believe this project has come up in the past in front of the West Procter Brothers zoning board. And it's bid decline due to the insufficient square footage. And that hasn't changed, so my opinion lays with that. I also think the last time it came in front of the neighborhood board, it was voted on by five members. And due to the primary elections, it was not voted on by the full board. So it's, you know, I just like to go on record with that being stated that it has not sat in front of the full board. Thank you. Thank you. I'll go ahead and march ahead. I'll show approval of BPDN's idea. Second. Over there. Aye. All right. All right. Thank you. Calling our next case, BOA 596654. 236 Huntington Ave. Extend existing garage by 10 feet. For a new registry of motor vehicle inspection bay. Article 9, Section 1, extension is a nonconforming use. Is anybody here from 236 Huntington Ave? Thank you. 875, type of mark that. So good. 875, ask 877, Hype Park Ave. I apologize. Existing, extend existing garage by 10 feet. For new registry of motor vehicles inspection bay. Article 9, Section 1, extension is nonconforming use. Name and address for the record, sir. My name is Bob Nailing. I am near property. To the applicant, it's all the door carry. The operates the business there. He's at 875, Hype Park Ave. I'm at 68 water transfer, water transfer, and mass. Great. Do you have that video? No problem. The project that got started without a building permit. A Salvador and his contractor, they sent the building by 6 feet. Without having to proper permits, we are here to, well, micely, it turned out that the process was missing a step. You had to come to the ZBA to get relief for extending the nonconforming use. So? Has the work been done? Yes, it has been. The document, not the satisfaction of the micely named the Spectral Services. He put a stop order on the project until we get this relief. As soon as we get this relief, it will issue the permit and the correction. The correct steps with the foundation can be done. So it's partially done? It's partially done, correct. But visually it's built and would like to see a photograph. The portion of the building with under-inspection, that is the bump out. That's the bump out, 6 feet. So part of that has been one continuous walk. Correct. That was actually a garage bay. Solidar carry, his mass stage inspection included a commercial inspection. Commercial inspection, you needed a certain length of bay 35 feet or so to... It was supposed to, hi, my name is Salvador Carey for the board. The operators are Carey out of service. That door that we actually built was 6 feet longer than what we were supposed to do. When actually we're building, it's my first time doing something like that. I just contract somebody and I find out that we need a permit. So we do all the paperwork. I pay for the drawing. We talk to the architect, to the engineer, to all the stuff. And we have all the permit ready. I mean, all the paperwork ready to start doing the right way is supposed to be done. But we first had to be a part of you guys in order for us to continue doing that. Right there is the drawing of the door and the extension also. We also have a massage interrupt. We also have a letter support from the neighborhood, from all my neighbors around. So they actually agree with us with the business that we're performing, even the door. And we've been also to the neighborhood association that was okay with us. They approve us in this construction. Thank you. Is anyone here to speak on behalf of the project? Good afternoon, Mr. Chair, members of the board. Brian Flynn, May's office and neighborhood services. I want to go on the record and support of this project. I was originally initiated before my tenure with ONS. However, the community process was completed. And as the gentleman has mentioned, there was overwhelming support by the community as well for it. Thank you. Good afternoon, Mr. Chair, members of the board. Wallet trap, White Councillor and Macau, these office we'd also like to go on record and support. Mr. Chair, members of the board, Paul Sullivan. I'm going to have to say, council, I'll make a flurry. Councilor, go record and support. Anyone here to speak on opposition? Motion to approve. We'll continue. We probably don't need to design review here, Jeff. No. Okay. So motion to approve. Second. I'll vote for whoever. I have a vote. Thank you. Calling case number BOA 739-020. 8 Chessna Street, Charlestown Mass. 600 square feet, third floor addition on existing two-story single-family residents. There will be a new stair as well as a master bedroom, master bath, and office walk-in closet per plan. Article 58, section 8, dimensional regulation, floor area ratio, excessive. Article 58, section 8, dimensional regulation, side yard insufficient. Could I have your name and address for the record please? I'm Melissa Brennan, H.S. Street on the owner of the house. Tim Sheen, nine Wall Street building designer. Okay. You want to tell us what you're proposing? Sure. Melissa lives in an existing 1,230 square foot single-family. It was part of a six unit development that they did in the mid-2000s. It moved in in 2006. Melissa did the project. She basically spearheaded the project with Jack French. We were single. And 12 years later she has three kids and a husband. She wants to make it 490 square foot bigger. We've had two neighborhood meetings. I gave Mr. Beside the first set of drawings. We were asking for 600 square feet. Man's art roof. Kind of like what's there. People like the third floor didn't want to lose their views. So the best we could do was steepen the angle of the man's side to break the mass of the building down a bit. And because of that it's a bit smaller. It's like 490 square feet as opposed to 600. And essentially what we're asking for was a master bedroom for them, a master bath, walking closet and a small office. And almost 500 square feet. Oh, the noise. The ground's very nice. Can I just make a comment about the FAR. I spoke to Mr. Santana, the plant's examiner, and he said that upon further review we actually didn't need that variance because the lot is 11,000 square feet. And the six houses only amount to about 8,500. Even with my addition we're well below 22,000 square feet. And he did agree with me, but he said that because I had already appealed he couldn't kind of fix that. And that it should be noted here at the board that we actually did not need that variance. So I don't know if you agree, Mr. Pazani. Well, I would say that I would leave it as a FAR violation that we did. Okay. So just so I can visualize it, just a six single family residences on altogether. It's actually three buildings. So one building is number 12 and 10 Chestnut Street. I'm a single building. I'm number 8 Chestnut Street. And then next to me is one building that contains two, four, and six Chestnut Street. They all look pretty similar. My house is the only two floor. Two floor. And it's a carriage house. So I have some old housing in terms of context. It is doing an addition on one of them. They're all three floor houses except mine. Yeah. And it was parcel R17 CIA, I believe. So it was a little bit of an odd shape. Okay. Can you ask for a second? Speak in favor of the panel. Good. Getting light in the day. Yes. Good afternoon. Members of the board, Christopher Green from the Mayor's Office of the Neighborhood Service. We would like to go on record and support. As stated, we hosted two community meetings and received a number of letters indicating support for the variances. To allow the applicant's family to continue to grow in the neighborhood. The applicant also had a second meeting to show shadow and view studies. Thank you very much. Thank you. Welcome. Thank you very much. Then we're here to speak about a mission. Have a motion. Most of the BDA design here. Second. Thank you all. Thank you. Hi. Uh, thank you. Okay, now everybody, I'm very keen on the number of break. Okay, let's go to the following throat. The moment I interpret it. Okay, so we're going to call 12 o'clock interpretations. Case BOA 7400-4255 Hall Street. The petitioner seeks a determination that the Inspectorial Services Department erred an issuing of permit, AELT-712386. The permit was issued as an allowed use. Name and address, sir. I'm Matthew Dunham, an attorney by office at one international place. I represent EMI LLC. They owe the property located at 59 Hall Street in the North End neighborhood districts. It's also situated in the Freedom Trail neighborhood design overlay district. This is their appeal of a building permit that was issued to do work at 55 Hall Street, which is an abutting parcel. The permit was issued to do certain work in the Freedom Trail neighborhood design district. It is being used for a different purpose. It's being used to dig out a dirt floor basement of an existing structure to put in a basement dwelling unit in that location, which is prohibited under existing zoning. The under Section 7 of the Naval Act states that the building permits for such a purpose. They need to get the zoning relief in order to first to have a basement unit before they can start the work to build the basement unit. So there's a bit of a put in a car before the horse here. That's important because during that permitting process, some information would get flushed out, particularly with regards to what would the impact of the building. That basement unit had on a butters such as my client. That information was not provided to the ISD. As a result, my client has began experiencing, where he has never experienced before, water infiltration at 59 Hall Street, which is a property that he did a full gut rehab back in 2007. So there was no water before. There is these construction activities that are happening to build out and dig out a dirt floor at 55 Hall Street, and now there is water. My client has engaged geo-tech-able engineer to assess the flow of water. He has indicated that that information would be provided in a plan from the Boston and sewer department, which was never provided to ISD. So with respect to that, there is going to be some other butters that I am going to speak about. The harms that are flowing from the dig out of this basement space with regards to not understanding, there is not a clear understanding as to what the impact of the water flow in that area or what the construction activities would have on the floor of water to a butters. That is creating problems not just for my client, but for others in the area. For that purpose, I would ask that the owner and the applicant who holds the permit be precluded from utilizing it any further until the sort of cease-decisth issue with regards to the ability to use that until a thorough understanding is provided to ISD and the appropriate permits are sought and obtained to do that basement work. Is the owner applicant here? Yes he is. I don't know if the owner applicant is here. I don't know if the owner applicant is here. I don't know if the owner is here. Why can both of us sit at the table here? We know we don't treat this as a public here. We get information from the balance and the person that brought the case to the point. I am just question whether or not we open it up to the room in general. I would like to hear from you. The issue is strictly whether I is the area or the issue in the permit. That is our. If I could add that there are two points. One is with regards to the grounds. It is not a issue because there isn't a zoning relief that is needed with regards to a variance for a basement unit in the particular zoning district where there is located. There are also changes to the massing of the building. There wasn't any small project review by the BRA that is required under section 54171C for doing that type of stuff. There are those of the grounds. There is also an issue of whether they are utilizing the permit that did issue in conformity with the terms and conditions of the permit itself. The work is done. The work is done. If not, it will stop. No, it has not been stopped. That is what we are here. Okay. Who are you representing? I am the board. I represent the urban court development in this matter. I did not plan on speaking today because I know there is a representative from ISD here at the issue of the permit. This is an existing two-family home that has been boarded up for at least 25 years. Boarded up. So just saw the permit to renovate existing premises just to correct the argument of my brother. It is not a basement unit. The unit is the architect and the test. The unit is the first law and basement unit. There is an interior stay well. It has been an existing interior stay well based on the skit. He is done when the purchase of property on my client. So unit one is first law and basement units which actually is more of a building. The unit is the first floor and basement units. The unit is the second floor. It is not a basement. I was seeking relief. I should have written counsel that. It is a basement unit. It is not a basement unit. This is an existing interior stay. This is an existing cleanroom place. This is not cleanroom place. This is hollow street. This is 55 hollow street which is closest to us. It is the re-inscading ring going down. It has been boarded up for at least 25 years. We represent ISD here. Could you come to the podium and explain ISD's role on this? Good morning. My name is Mark Joseph. I am not the plain examiner for this project. The plain examiner is not here today. I was asked to come here and did some research on this and come to give some clarity on this. What I was able to see is that this is an existing two family. There is no dwelling unit per se. It is just an extension of the first floor to the basement which is the unit. There is no dwelling unit there. The permit, LT712385, was only to do some alterations to do what's there. But not to add any more zoning, no floor ratio, no more floor, no anything else. It is just to do some repairs there. Mr. Joseph, what in the original that's been abandoned did in fact the first floor unit extend into the basement as part of that first floor unit? To my understanding, Tom White was the plain examiner. That's my understanding. So even though it was not but floor ratio was fine. When you did your measurements of the existing conditions, did in fact the first floor unit extend into the basement? Yes it did. And further it was a semi-decorative stair. The stair is that we got the building and got it in a gutted format. But the stairs existed and the railings did as well. Those have been left through previous demo exercises. The stairs were of the same quality and type throughout the building of all levels, inclusive to the basement. Which we call the garden level because Hall Street does is steep windows. There's plenty of code required light and vent that could be provided to that area. By all appearances it was a living area. So it's part of your drawings. Did you introduce new windows, new exterior and new? We did not. Everything was in existing and existing condition. We were able to work with existing masonry openings on the front of Hall Street. As well in the rear there was plenty of rear area for windows. We were able to have code required bedrooms, windows providing light and vent to those bedrooms. It was all by right. And additionally the ceiling height that we discovered was around 7.6 when we got the property. And also the ceiling is going to be sprinkled according to the record I see. There is a tweeting system for sprinkled system according to the record here. So I see. So I was satisfied that this was a two family. That's my understanding. But Tom White's not here. That's my understanding. The permit was issued and according to what was submitted. I was thinking done simply that. And take your observations. I would like to look at the world. No, this is not actually public. We're just trying to get some information. Based on the comments of ISD and quite frankly, you know, there were diligence. I think I have to say that ISD did not hear. Okay. So on the phone, the motion. Yes. You're willing to listen to your work to listen. But you're here. You're willing to listen to the motion of the people. You're going to be surprised and it's confusing. It's a motion on the floor. Okay. Is there a second? A second. A little favor? Hi. I close. Okay. Thank you. Calling case BOA. Seven four. One. I'm sorry. Seven four. Seven two. One five. One 17 Bolton Street. The petitioner seeks a determination that a special service is carried in issuing the permit. E-R-T-6894-58. Name and address for the record, please. Sterling Street 119 Bolton Street, Boston, Massachusetts. Okay. I'm reading news 28 Houghton Street, Dr. Simass. I'm the owner of the property. Okay. And your position of the ISD, Aaron, and issuing the permit? I am seeking interpretation of the process. There was no... I looked at the materials that were submitted to the Inspectorate Services, and there was actually no survey, which would indicate the footprint of the building. And then at the time, I had some concerns representing both myself and my neighbors. Three months have passed since I submitted for this appeal, so a lot has happened between now and then. So, does that change your view? Well, I'm just still seeking the interpretation on what was submitted. There was no survey for all I know the building could have been put down anywhere. There were drafted drawings provided, so that's to my point, that's still my original question. Mr. Joseph, are you speaking for ISD on this? Yes, I am. Good morning again. Good morning, sir. I was the reviewer for this project. There was a survey from a land survey of this. The land size, the weight of it is 27 feet. And the building, the footprint of the building on that lot is 21 feet. The code requires three foot yard setbacks, which left us six feet, three on each side. And then the lot also is a shallow lot, which is 40 feet. Based on Article 68, if your lot, the length of the lot is not 100 feet. You have some exemption. The required wheel yard setback is 20 feet. But due to the size of this lot, which is a shallow lot, it was able to get 15 feet to get that exemption. That's probably what, I don't know if you were able to see that. So just what I was really looking for at that time was just like the engineer survey or that the developer had done. Just 27 foot lot where that starts and ends, just confirmation. I'm looking at the building now and it looks pretty close to where it should be. But at the time of submission, that was just laughing. So that's... Have you been given a survey of a lot of... I have not. Is that something that could be done? I've been dealing with this neighbor on the neighbor's foot about six and seven years in the park. I've given every opportunity to review everything. Do we have a favor, please provide them with the absolute block money. Okay, so we have a motion on the question of interpretation whether I see here. Again, I'll make a motion that... Excuse me, I SD do not air. Second. A little favor. Thank you very much. Have a great day. Next case, BOA 751038461 Massachusetts Avenue. The petitioner seeks determination that is Spectral Service Department, and the Department of Arid and Issuing, Permit, ALT 6-7, 6-342. Name and address for the record, please. Hello, this is Gail Phineff, owner and a butter, so a 459 Mass Ave. And Bob Arnie, owner and a butter at 463 Mass Ave. Okay, so who is Robert DeBlaire? Both of us were on either side of this property. So what I have done is since you apparently only had a handwritten copy, I've actually typed up that is, is it illegical for anyone? What is it? The RPO. So, and I've broken it down into sections, and I have pictures. So for each of these sections, I will give you a rundown on that. Thank you for speaking with us. We are not attorneys, we are citizens, we are a butter, so... I'd like to go over public here. That's right, well we appreciate being heard. We have tried in the past to come here. And one of our first issues that we had was when this case came to the G-Cod and got G-Cod approval. And if you look at the Board of Appeal terms, it says, Excavate Repatio and Stole New Drainage Retaining Walls, Paving Exterior Egress Stairs, Exterior HVAC Units. That is the first mention of Exterior HVAC Units anywhere in any of the plans that you have. So we are definitely refuting those. And so basically under that G-Cod application, and I did ask, the clerk at the time, since we were told we couldn't speak, I said, well they've never ever spec'd out those, they're giant HVAC Units. So we have a problem with that, and we have a problem with the new design that they are proposing in order to try to prevent too much noise in the back with these giant co-pressors out there for heating and cooling. So the basically, if we go through each of our appeal lines, and I will give you the pictures, we have responded, and the responses are in red, and I've given one copy to Craig Gowman, but if anyone else is like a copy, this is our response to the attorneys. What he wrote last night, that we got at 6 o'clock last night, thank you. So our first problem is that the sewage line was cut, and when they excavated without a permit, when they first started this project of 461, they excavated with no permit, and the permit was just to take out some dirt, but when they hit the sewage line, they said, oh, oh, because it was crossing right across the, and this is pictures, crossing right across where they wanted to put a patio. So instead of calling Boston Water and Sewer at that point, they cut that line. They put bends in it, and they ran it out, so they cut it at the sewer. Now they never inspected the sewer line all the way to the actual large sewer line in our alley. So we have had several people in our alley have had to redo their sewer lines. This one was literally cut, bent, and we don't believe that it was installed properly. It was never inspected by Boston Water and Sewer. So we first think, if you have a 17-unit brownstone with 17 bathrooms and showers, and that's going to go through that sewer line, A, that sewer line was re-routed closer to my property at 459 Massab, and B, we are very worried that the way that they did that is illegal, and is not going to stand up. So we certainly know my property. Okay, so that's number one. Number two, since they had done this work without ever surveying, they built over that sewer line. What I'm calling a brick shelf. In order it hides the sewer line, but it also is over my property line. So they have actually built a structure that is over my property line. When they did do the surveying, when they did do the surveying, you can see that they've built over my property line. We wanted that removed. They claimed that our, in the letter from Attorney Soros, he claimed that our existing retaining wall was problematic. It is not. I've also included pictures of our retaining wall, which is in perfect shape. So they did this to hide the sewer line, and they're refuting that. Point number three. In proper rainwater and downspout, they never actually did a downspouting for the rainwater. The rainwater runoff used to go underneath the dirt, so that they cut that pipe, and they just left an empty rainwater pipe just to splash the water down onto this new shelf. Water has damaged all of our pointing, and it has caused great crevices in the brick. This has never been repaired. We did have a letter from Sean Leiden to make Achilles go and fix that downspout so that the water would not ruin the pointing, but the damage has been done and not repaired. Section four. No repair for G-Cod has been done yet, and again we're getting into rainy season and winter. Last year there was about four to five inches of standing water in the backyard, which did leak into 463, the Abutters property. And that was because they have never, because they dug down four feet, they never took into consideration all of the water that was going to build up there. We did have an unusually high rain level for the spring, so and it has gone down in the summer, but we anticipate that that's going to come back up and start to damage further our foundations. And lastly, Section five, the oversized HVAC units were never included on any plans. They have never been approved by the Department of Environmental Protection. Their specifications for noise are out of spec for the South End neighborhood. They are 62 to 63 dB, and they're claiming wrongly so that they can flip a magic switch and make it quieter to 58 dB. That might be, they might be able to do some mitigation, but they will not give us any guarantee that if they are out of spec and the noise level is too high, that they will remove them, and we have asked repeatedly to get that guarantee, and that has not happened. So they basically dug it out. They haven't fixed the pumping. They haven't done the G-Cod. They have that illegal shelf built over the sewage line right now, which I'm asking to be removed. And then, and they've put up retaining walls, but I don't know if the retaining walls are to spec, they certainly look different from the the plan. Well, the HVAC units are there on the shelf, and they've never been installed, so they've been in their own approximately. The HVAC units have been sitting out there for a year in that the elements not turned on, because we have, we immediately said, these are, these are so out of spec and out of whack. You can see the incredible size of the minimums photo. Also, we have the plans here that we got from ISD, and this signature here says that Department of Environmental Protection and Proof will is required for this, and I don't believe that's been done. So in the approved plans that ISD gave, okay, you'll notice that the past plans do not include kitchens and cooktops. The approved new plan does. Now, if this is the fact that there's a lodging house, 17 unit lodging house, they are not supposed to be installing kitchens and cooktops. John Liden actually told us that in emails that the cooktops and kitchens have been removed due to the fact that they want to keep this as a lodging house old. Okay. Okay. So we have a run to that and some of the agencies that you've heard too. Questions? You want to talk about what's happening across the water? Sure. Christian Seminelli, Boston, Grower Trust. So this case was before the board on April 11th, and at that time, the only article of violation was article 32. We did have the approval letter from Boston Water and sewer stating that the applicant did meet the requirement for the installation of a recharge system. And according to the plans that were submitted with that letter, it appears that the downspout at the rear of the building is supposed to be connected to that recharge system. So ultimately upon inspection, water and sewer, we'll certify that once they sign off on the system, once the system is installed. Unless I'm mistaken, I believe the testimony we're just given that the system hasn't been installed yet. No, it hasn't. And the damage hasn't been repaired. Okay. So then ultimately, once that system is installed, water and sewer will come out and basically sign off on the installation. I guess the only other question I would have is the sewer in the alley. Ultimately, who owns that? Is that your sewer or water and sewer? It's a private alley. Boston Water and sewer is in charge of the main sewer line. We are individually, our buildings are all responsible for that sewer line that goes from the building out to that line. And as we have said, these are very old lines and many of them have had to be replaced recently. This one was cut and it wasn't looked at all the way. What does the product keep the answers strictly the question was? We are responsible. Well the question is who owns the sewer? Exactly. Thank you. The owner. Okay. That's the answer. Okay. So it sounds like there's still some open and issues there. Yes. Yeah. I mean the system is, she's basically describing the whole in the ground as what it is now with no recharge system. I also had correspondence with the engineer for this project prior to the hearing just to confirm that any occupable space was an ascending below elevation seven Boston city base, which were to kick them the no harm component of this. He stated to me that they were going to install pervious papers and that the work was going to be the work was going to be all above elevation seven Boston city base. Okay. What about from I see his perspective? I was not aware of this project. I don't think I'd be able to speak on this intelligently. The why should and but most of what I've heard here there is no zoning violations there. It's mostly things that have to be mitigated mitigated to probably MOU with the neighborhood and with the developer that's that's. I mean mitigation plans that's something that we see all the time and the only violation that was cited by Lisa based on what I just saw was a G card article 32 that's all the zoning violation that was there. Right. And in addition, there's. Well, there's no. I mean, let's just be clear our responsibility what you brought to us is interpretation of whether I see here. Yeah. Okay. And it's limited to that. We don't have already around also water. So we're asking us to deal with issues. Just a dose of said about MOUs is also Department of Environmental Protection issue. All we can do is deal with the issues and what is our parents and what Mr. Joseph said. But the Z. Yes, sir. I based on our knowledge there is those only violation other than 32 the G card due to the extension of work there. So substantial innovations triggers that and that's all Lisa. Hong was the pen examiner was able to cite but there was no order zoning violations with respect to this project. Okay. So it's a board of you to understand that we that's where we are heading. That doesn't mean that's not no that's not the only one. This this is a zoning violation. If this is a lodging house. If it's a lodging house, you cannot have kitchens and cook tops that is. I think I think what we're trying to say to you just so that we're all on the same page that we're not arguing that these things are violations. Yeah. That they're not following code. Okay. But what we're we're arguing what our side of this is that we gave relief. Okay. On on this project at some point. Correct. No, no, you never they never asked for the G card relief. Only G card. But that's all we can discuss. That's all that's up for table for us. We have no we have no enforcement instrument. We don't have any of those violations. If they don't build the debt. Excuse me. If they don't build the deck right. If they do have a problem with the sewer. That is on that is on institutional services. They didn't error in the G card side of this. I'm going to make a motion that we that I that I don't think I I. I. I. I. S. D. Made an error in this in this in that issuing this permit. Well. Can I. I can. All of the favor. Thank you. Only issue. For us is that. She. All these other things. That's not. No, no, no, that's not the plan. The G. Cut thing was already approved. We weren't refuting that. The motion that was made in the past. Over what I'm. We're suggesting is you have lots of issues here. You know lots of legitimate issues. Yeah. But this particular forum. Oh, gee, we were fine with that except the fact that the inspection of the sewage is proud. But that's all that we are empowered to deal with. So there are other avenues for you to pursue and I strongly urge you. Well, how do we pursue the the need for the environmental agency to approve it? Not quite. So when this says on the plans that it is required, how do we do that? Deal with Sean Lydans from Lydans. He's a better aspect of this so you can do it with him. We are agreeing with you that there are plenty of issues there that need to be addressed. This is not the forum. That's all. So I wish you good luck you got speed and the need to go. Thank you. Thank you. It's not lost. You