 you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you It's our second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries for one year extension. I'm going to call the 930s. Any deferrals or withdrawals for 930? Councillor Adressley? 19-23, clap street. The record calling VOA 824-773-19-23, clap street. Tim Johnson, architect 190, call on the air of Boston, Madam Chair, members of the board. Although we have broad about of support, we have made major revisions to this multi-family building due to the request of the executive committee of the Civic Association. They have a meeting tomorrow night and they like us to present the final revisions. Therefore, we respectfully request the deferral to the earliest possible date. How major are these revisions? We removed from a five-story 12-unit building, Madam Chair, to a four-story 9-unit building. And the review by the committee is for what? It's a pardon me, Madam. We did email them the revised plans, but they want us to present tomorrow at their executive committee meeting. I should have said this before you got on stand, but for all community groups and applicants, we are really looking very strictly at our policy about granting extensions. This has increased our workload and our meeting schedule has really flipped out of control. So this is a reminder that the summer is coming up and we always see an increase in the number of requests for deferrals. So we ask that community groups and applicants do their best to make sure that they hear the cases in a timely fashion before they are scheduled for this board. So on this case, may I have a motion please? Motion put to for all. Second. All those in favor? Aye, aye. Any opposed? The date? The state is going to be July 30th, 1130. Thank you, Madam Chairman. Address please. Good morning. Nester Lemus for 73 Maverick Square. We're requesting the deferral. A couple of seconds, sir. Okay. For the record calling, DOA 929-259-73-75 Maverick Square. Name an address for the record please. Nester Lemus, 73 Maverick Square. Can you why you're requesting the deferral? We're requesting the deferral. The matters before the bill were zoning items that were going to be addressing FAR setbacks, preexisting conditions. Since then, we also had building code issues that we've been working with the planning examiner. And the planning examiner suggested that we should go before the sport to address those issues. So we have filed a necessary paperwork to have those added to this hearing. Okay. So has that been advertised yet, Kevin? I'm sorry. The building code. The building code companion case to this. Okay. So this only is a zoning code refusal. So have you received anything on building code from the ISD? Yes, ma'am. You have. Okay. And so advertising will take a month. Three weeks. Three weeks? Okay. We're into July. So may I have a motion please? Motion for the deferral. Is there a second? Back. All those in favor? Hi. Any opposed? No. I'm the date of July 30th, 1130. Thank you. Good morning. Adverse counsel. Good morning. 80 Cottage Street East Boston. For the record, calling B.O.A. 918, 868, 80 Cottage Street. Aiming to address the record. Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Mark LeCast. LeCast law, 75 Arlington Street in Boston. Attorney for the applicant. We seek a deferral based on a request of the JPNA that we appear before. They are general meeting on Monday, May 13th. We've already completed our butter meeting. We had a meeting with the plans and zoning committee. After which, I want to ask requested hearing date. Which was assigned for today. However, JPNA's general meeting is next Monday the 13th. So we just need to appear before them for the final vote. Both substantively has changed. Nothing substantively has changed, Madam Chair. So you're just going in for a final check-in? Final vote. There are plans and zoning committee heard the substance. And then they take a final vote at their general membership meeting the following month. Okay, we may have a motion. Madam Chair, we have no plans for this project. So that's an issue too. Make sure that we have the plans. May I have a motion please? Motion. Motion to deferral. Is there a second? Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? The date please? There's already been a date granted for them on 6-11, 2019 at 11-30. Why is there a date already scheduled for them? It's what I've been told. Okay. Okay. 6-11. 6-11 at 11-30. Thank you so much. Are there any other deferrals or withdrawals for 9-30? Yes. Right. No, let's go ahead. Calling the first case. Calling BLA-920147-216-Brook Street. This is to modify a roofline, changing a few interior wall layouts. The violation is Article 27G. This is in the east, Boston, Ipad. Article 53, Section 9. The full day ratio is excessive. Article 53, Section 9. The height is excessive in stories. Article 53, Section 9. Required side-gatties insufficient. Article 33, Section 9. Required rear-yard setback is insufficient. Name and address for the rectification. I.J.A.Lion's 187B-E-Central State and Native Massachusetts. So tell us what's actually being proposed. Is there a dormer added? What's being proposed? The current house has a walk-up attic. It has a hip roof on it. And what we're proposing is to straighten the walls and put a flat roof on the top. So the third floor... It's a story in essence. It's already a usable space. It's already a living space. And they're just looking to gain a little bit more room for their growing family. Okay, what's the floor to ceiling height? The floor to ceiling height on that floor is going to be 8 feet. I believe. Okay, and the use of that space? Bedrooms, mainly. Bedrooms, how many? That will be three bedrooms on that floor. Three bedrooms, and this is a one family or two family? The two family. The first floor is unit one, and second and third floors would be unit two. And how many bedrooms in the unit two? Unit two is total of three bedrooms. So it's only these bedrooms in the additional floor. Oh, it's the initial floor. First floor, the... No, on this second unit, how many bedrooms in the second unit? This second unit is the three bedrooms. Okay. How are the plans, Mr. Oleg? Well, I mean, this is a fairly diminimous project, but there are no elevations. There is a section of no elevations and drawings, and it's also stamped by engineers, both in architectures. There were no elevations in this. I didn't even complete it. We submitted the old data. Yeah, them with you? I'll leave you a check and see if we have any. Do you have some? The architect has to bring them up. Can you bring them up, please? Is there a reason that it's not stamped by the architect, and it's stamped by the engineer's debt? Can you bring this here? It's a little bit... I mean, this is fairly diminimous, so it's not a huge deal, but still... We can... If should this pass, we can hold signature until we have it stamped by an architect. Any other questions from the board? What, hang on a second. These drawings aren't stamped either. By the architect? By anybody. Okay, we... I know it's submitted these. Stamped ones from the engineer. Yeah, I just did not have a stamp set from the architect. Okay. Any issues, though, that you seem... I mean, this is pretty straightforward. Five things, though. I... I'm not sure if all the items are done at the teacher's cross. Is anybody here to speak and support of this proposal? Good morning, Madame Chair, members of the board. Lina, similarly, with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services, I would like to go on record on support, and they were not concerns about the proposal during the community meetings. Thank you. Good morning, Madame Chair, members of the board, Ricardo Patrón from the Office of City Councilor Lydia, where it's the council would also like to go on record and support. Is anybody here to speak in opposition? May I have a motion, please? Motion to approve. Plans will be held until we have them stamp by an architect. Thank you, Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Calling BOA9162336198 Byron Street. This is a bill, a two-story 19 by 15 edition. No basement addition to contain one bedroom, second floor level. A study office and the first level. A current first floor egress to grade level, shall be maintained, renovated with new addition. Violates. Notical 27G. This is an e-sposton iPod. Name an address for the record, please. Can you speak up, please? Sure. And it was Frank Delido. You associate eye content in the building of the project. The owner of the project. The owner of the home is beside you here. Maddie, do you hear us? No, this is the one or two family dwelling. One. It is the one. It's the one family. The owner occupied. Yes, so tell us what's being proposed. We're proposing to play the 15 by 12, two-story addition in the area of the house. And the uses for what? The use will be for one in the additional bedroom in the study home office. Thank you. Mr. Erlich, how are the plans? Run really good. Any, what's the total square footage? That's being proposed again. Is this a diminimous project or not? I mean, there is actually, because I understand there's no, the only issue is iPod, right? The only issue is iPod. Yeah, so there's nothing good. Any questions on the board? Is anybody here to speak and support of this proposal? Good morning, Madame Chair, members of the board, Lena Trameli with the mayor's offices of neighbourhood services. I would like to go on the recording support. There was a strong support doing our community process. Thank you. Good morning, Madame Chair, members of the board, Ricardo Patron, Office of City Councilor Lydia. In order to the council, I would also like to go on record and support. Is anybody here to speak in opposition? May I have a motion, please? Make a motion to approve. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. You're all set. Probably BOA 918, 9764, 783 East Broadway. This is to legalize the extended living space to the basement for unit one and existing two families, while no work can be done. Violated out of the 27S, Section 5, this is in the south Boston iPod. Name and address for the record, please. Madam Chair, I would like to ask Tom Miller from the Department of Culture and Development in the state of Boston. So, I'm sorry, Mr. Chair. Mr. Chair, I'm sorry. And so, tell us what's being proposed. So, this is an application to legalize and already constructed additional living space in the basement of the first unit at the address. And is this owner occupied? He is not as rental. It was when Mr. Grinnell bought the property. It was already built. And while it was going through, the process, he realized that it was not legal. And so, we're here to write it by that. So, tell us what's the floor to ceiling height and the basement and what's the use of that space? It's over a unit feet. I'm not sure exactly what it is off the top of my head, but it's an unit feet plus. So, the use is living here in the bedroom. And tell us about the bedroom. Does it have a window well? Is it above grade? What is the deal on that? Yes, the both bedrooms in the basement are half windows. They are below the window. Yep. There is a window well for a egress in the front bedroom. The rear bedroom has access to the rear exit, which accesses an entry exit to the back area. Mr. Erlich and on utility separate? I find them a little confusing about the access to the utility room. Each unit has its own account at the room. And there's a note here, it says unit one owner to allow access to meters as necessary. What does that mean? The meters are in closet in the basement, and there is access for the other unit to get in. The access, I'm looking at, but the access is through the other unit. Correct. Is supposed to be separate access. Could you put your name in address on the record, please? Yes. Paul Scribner, 16 Bacon Street, Wolver Massachusetts. Thank you. Hello. I mean, there's supposed to be independent access for each unit to the mechanical room without going into one of the other units. On the condo documents, they worked that out. I mean, that was done before I was even a part of it. I just, I bought the unit, and as a part of the condo docs, they allowed for access for the other unit as far as I know. I think that needs to be fixed because we have seen cases come before us where that actually evolves into an issue. Each unit needs to, we need to figure that one out, how to separate the utilities or... I also own one of the units. I see. So the other, the other owner is... So you own just the basement unit? The first basement. It's the first floor in the basement and the other owner owns the third and fourth floor. Second and third. Second and third, I'm sorry. Okay. How's everything else? It's all... Well, everything else is... It is okay that that means it's actually legalizing an existing situation, but I wish someone's life. I'm not sure if I'm not sure whether this pass or not. I don't know how a condo doc can override building codes. No. Any questions or comments from the board? You put that provided. So you should have been a site of a building code? Mr. Hill. As Jeff, Mr. Amp says, I think that's a wise decision, is that we make a motion to not grant any building code release. And then that's there for a problem from that point on. Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Is anybody... Hold on. Just support. If you're speaking support, okay. Madam Chair, members of the board, Haley Dillon from Mayors Office of the Neighborhood Services. And we'd like to go ahead and support of this project. Thank you. Is anybody here to speak in opposition? Madam, if you're speaking in opposition, can you line up at the podium right there? Are representatives of elected officials go ahead? Madam Chair, members of the board, Haley Dillon from Paxiller, Flings office. The counselor would like to go and break our opposition to this proposal. There are many concerns coming from the direct supporters on the community outreach for this particular project. So we want to echo Dillon from the local opposition. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Karen Foley, counselor of the Cyber Joji's Office. We want to echo counselor Flynn in our poses project. Thank you. Please put your name and address on the record and tell us what your opposition is based on. My name is Joanne McDevitt and I'm sorry that I was outside. It's very hard to hear as you know. Please tell us what your opposition is based on. And your address. And your address, please. Goanne McDevitt, MC, Capitol D.E. Vigdher, ITT, 787 East Broadway, South Boston Mass, and I am the immediate butter. Okay. I believe that there has been confusion in a lack of public process. I have never seen the plans. I tried to ascertain those plans from 1010 Massive. They were moved over here for this hearing. And I have not been able to look at those plans yet. I would ask that you defer the process today. If you recognize that. Does this make sense for you to take for us to hold this case and for you to have a conversation with the plans so that the butter is well informed? Okay. Let's do that and let's move on to the next project. We'll come back to that case. We're going to go to the next one calling B-O-A-921-174. 71 to 75 West Broadway. This is to demolish and exist in building erecting new six-door mix shoes, build them a ground floor commercial space and nine residential units above. Violation to Article 27S, Section 9, this is in the South Boston iPod, Article 68, Section 33, Austria-Pafing is insufficient, Article 68, Section 8, 40, a ratio is excessive, Article 68, Section 8, the building height is excessive, Article 68, Section 8, the usable open space is insufficient, Article 68, Section 8, the front yard is insufficient, Article 68, Section 8, the size of the building is not good enough. Article 68, Section 8, the side yard is insufficient, Article 68, Section 8, the rate is insufficient. Name and address for the record. Board of Madam Chair and Members, the Board of Madam and the Judge Maranxing, the Attorney for the Business Andrews of 350 West Broadway in South Boston. I am joined by Doug Steppner, the project architect of the Nath址ers of 93 West Street in South Boston. Madam Chair, Members, this is an application for a new six-story building at 71-75 West Broadway, which is the corner of ACE. This is currently a single-story commercial building, best known as the present location of Mull's Diner. Madam Chair and Members, this application seeks the erection of a new six-story building that would contain ground floor commercial space, approximately 1128 square feet of a use that is yet unidentified. We're not seeking any relief for any future intended use with nine units, nine dwelling units located above. The building would rise to a maximum height of 65.5 feet, as well units would be divided as two units per floor, the floor is two through five, and then one unit, unit number nine occupying the entirety of the sixth floor. The units are comprised of one one bedroom and one two bedroom unit on floor is two, three, four, and five, and then the sixth floor, number unit number nine, which occupies the entirety of the sixth floor, is a two-bedroom unit. The 15-bedroom unit, 15 bedrooms in total, there would be a private roof deck on the roof. What if the square footage calls for the one bedroom, the two bedrooms? Yeah, the one bedrooms are 802 square feet, and the two's, nine, 25, the top floor being the entire floor is 1753. This is located in an MFRLS, a multi-family residential, local service zone, sub-district under our 68. It requires relief for FAR, the maximum under the MFRLS is 1.5. This is just over six. It occupies the entirety of the site. There are zero-lock line building, and there are bays on floors two through six, which accounts for the point one in the FAR. I was seeking a variance on height, on minimum use below in space for dwelling unit. Again, this is a zero setback building, so we have a model on West Broadway, a model on A Street, no rear yard setback, and no side yard setback on the right side. Again, there's, because the size of the site is 2244 square feet, it's not possible to have both an active first floor use in parking on the ground floor. No parking associated with this building, it is located on the same block as the MBTA's Broadway red line station. It's maybe 200 feet from the station, so this is a true transit oriented development. Is there a roof deck on this building? There is a roof deck with a private use of the sixth floor unit. It does cover the size of that roof deck, it's 19 by 50 feet. That's very large. So it's private to the sixth floor? Yes, but the drop floor unit cannot be made public because it doesn't have two needs of EGR, so we'll remain a private roof deck for the use of unit 9 on the link. Who are the plans for stylish? Other than the fact that Moses was going through the set, I don't know if you're going through it. Any questions from the board? Does anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? And as you remember, is the board Ely Dillon Mayor's office in April and Services? We'd like to go ahead and support. Thank you. Does anybody here to speak in opposition? Oh, support? Please tell the put your name and address on the record. Yes, Morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. I'm Derek Padjakowski representing the WBNA, West Brewery Neighborhood Association. So we would like to offer our conditional support for this project. We think that details need to be resolved. We need to see further details, but in general, the erection of a building of this size and this use on this corner, we brought this corner. Thank you. An opposition? Yes. Madam of the Chair, members of the board, Anna Calderon from Councillor Flings office. The Councillor would like to go and record in opposition to this project with her from many neighbors, abouters and the entire South Boston community. In opposition to this project, they share concerns about the height of six stories, the density, parking impacts, and issues with trash removal. We also heard concerns about pedestrian safety during the construction phase at this very recent intersection due to the high volume of food and vehicular traffic. As they resolved, we have posed this project. Thank you so much. Madam Chair, members of the board, all solid and on behalf of the Chicago's at-lodge Michael Flarety, due to the communal efforts that went into drafting article 68, the Councillors unable to support the project at this time, but would defer to the board. Melinda Wartman, GD Mydress. Yes. 55 West Broadway Street Unit 1, South Boston. I speak on behalf of the 45 to 55 West Broadway condominium association, and I am a member of the West Broadway Neighborhood Association. It strikes me that with seven violations to the zoning rules, that it undermines to approve this undermines the actual purpose of the zoning board, that we're looking at preserving neighborhoods, and this building would do just the opposite. It would take away from the frontage, it would take away from the general beauty of the neighborhood, and as I said, violates, as you mentioned, seven of the zoning rules. So I just want to go on record that I'm opposed to the project. Thank you. Madam Chair, board members, my name is Michael Parker, and I represent the 45 to 55 West Broadway condominium association. It is the same. Okay. They are directed butters to this project. We just heard from one person there, representing she just represented the building and the units there. Correct. Okay. Thank you. So what I would just like to emphasize is that the condominium association has tried to engage in dialogue with the developer. We had one meeting, there was one plan that was given to the condominium regarding issues like the screening between the buildings, it's going to be in tight quarters. So you are in opposition. We are in opposition. Okay. Councillor, can we have a response? Yes, I'm going to tell us about the community process. So community process, there was the body's meeting sponsor by the office of the neighborhood services at the Library Center in February. There was a presentation to the West Broadway neighborhood association and it's regularly meeting. It was a follow-up presentation to the WBNA specifically on design. I know that the WBNA, even in its testimony referencing some concerns, they still have a very concerned about design. A lot is happening in that general area and some of it that has occurred has been good and that's been a development that has, you know, I do go on stricter oversight by WBNA. And that my clients are committed to continuing to work with them on design issues because there are examples down there where the design didn't quite go the way that it should have. So my clients, as on the other projects that I've worked on today were committed to working. We both have the BBA, and the WBNA, our design will continue to regular updates. And so, who is your client? My clients are the owner of this, Steve at Mulberry. My clients are the purchases and developers and that is Joe Allen, Michael Moore, and Patrick Schell. So, and I'm assuming that they know that our butters also need a voice in this. So I'm assuming that should this prevail, that you will continue to do, I'll quit, reach out to the butters. Absolutely because it is a small site because there needs to be a dialogue that needs to be communication with the 55 West Broadway Association. This site is continuous to their site and not to their well-enbuildings, but to their parking area. And that is certainly something we're committed to not only because it's neighborly, but because it's a necessity through this process. We may have a motion to approve with continued BPDA design review and also extensive outreach to the neighbors to continue towards the end. All those in favor? Any opposed? Motion carries. Calling DOA93809105 West First Screen. This is demolition of an existing warehouse building. We will offer new construction of a ground up seven-story office building with one level of backing, basement space, retail space, and the first floor. Violation Diagonal 21 Section 1. The setback of the parapet is insufficient. Name and address for the record please. Good morning, Mr. Moore and Alan Chen. I'm a manager of faculty with this. I'm a representative of the property center. We were here before you previously presenting the business project on a turned out ownership by the ISD. And upon reviewing the plans and the turned out letter, we realized that we thought that was also a car put setback that had not been cited. ISD agreed issue to subsequent turned out letter and we were before you to get this one additional piece of zoning relief necessary to construct the project. The project has received community support, EPA approval, and married other purposes of approval by Boston Law Reserve, site planning approval so that it can go into construction later this week. So this just completes the suite of zoning relief needed for the project. What is the relief? What exactly? How many feet? The parapet setback requirement, this is based on I-2 and to essentially requires a way of making building so setbacks of like 28 and 35 feet. Which on this tight site and the regularly shaped site is not possible and also ends up with floor plates above 60 feet that just are not responsive to the market. It makes the project completely unikinath. So this design was approved by the BCDC, the BPEA, and the community. So nothing about the project itself has changed. We just want to make sure that it has the complete suite of zoning relief that it is. How the plans, Mr. O'Leak? The applicant has stated that their demand must be because it's really only about the parapet setback. Okay, so may I have a motion please? Motion to approve. Second. All those in favor? No. Any opposed? Motion carries. You're all set. Good luck. Thank you very much. Calling your next case. Calling BOA 896463, 30 PRebel Street. This is the directly new three family dwelling, building with four parking spaces and roofed active. Violation of the article 27S, Section 5, in the South Boston iPod. Article 68, Section 33, Austrian parking use insufficient. Article 68, Section 8, the Floyd A ratio is excessive. Article 68, Section 8, the usable open space is insufficient. Article 68, Section 8, the front yard is insufficient. And Article 68, Section 8, the rear yard is insufficient. Name and address for the rectum please. Members, have it my only. The review status of 160 dental street representing the proposed donor and universal. Okay. Tell us about what's being proposed. And Sharon, who was employed before you was 34th Street, which has an existing single-story retail space on it. The proposal to demolish that structure, the interactive three unit residential building, three parking spaces. What's the zoning in this district? This is 10-net farm. Okay. The proposal maintains dimensional setbacks at a minimum of three-foot side yard setback. The first page, as well as 15-foot, is really your setback from the building. The two means of e-greses, and double the right side yard setback, which was something that was getting through and able to process. There are three parking spaces on the lowest level, the second level, and third and fourth level is a two-bedroom, two-bedroom, residential. There will be a condo unit. There is no roof deck, initially, on the act of hydrogen, with the roof, through the neighborhood process. What are the sizes of the units, Councillor? Two-center, a thousand-square-page. Okay. How are the plagues, Mr. Ellic? Drawing traffic with this, but it's been honing. There's two steps of drawings. One for lots over, one for a whole table set. Give me a table set with drawings and most recent drawings. Okay. So what can you specifically describe the differences between the two sets? A roof deck, and also the side yard, and the earlier set, on the right side, has been increased to a resulted community feedback, or some of the work that brought history. Okay. Well, Madam Chair, the table tent brought for you. Any questions from the board? Does anybody here just speak and support at this proposal? Madam Chair, members, we have a lot of support for the New York Council Association. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Anna Calderon from Councillor Fim's office. The Councillor would like to go on recording support of this project. The applicant did work with their bothers and the civic neighborhood association to take off the roof deck and other constraints that they had. And that's the reason why we support. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Karen Foley, Councillor Savi George's office. We'd like to go on record and support of this project. Thank you. Thank you. Is anybody here to speak in opposition? Madam Chair, members of the board, Paul Sullivan of the Office of the Council, Lodge Michael Flarety. He due to the efforts that were interrupting Article 68 of the Council is unable to support the project at this time, but would defer to the board. Good morning, Madam Chair and Council members. My name is Julie Bern. My address is 15 Rogers Street, South Boston Mass. I'm here to go on record as a direct-to-butter against in opposition of this permit currently as he indicated. So, don't, don't, please. Just give us bullet points on what your opposition is based on. So it is not owner occupied currently. It's going to be condominium. Yeah. Three condominium units. It's an egregious plan to sort of gain profit on the area. The current owner of the property does not manage the property well as you're aware the under-square area is there's a lot of drug use. There are people that urinate and defecate behind that building and it's poorly managed currently. So it's upsetting in the neighborhood when I'm an owner occupied unit and there's no concern of the property now, but in order to make some profit on that. We're going to be losing access to air. You know, oftentimes we've had other development on Preble Street, which is in that same area. AC units. HVAC are usually put in the rear of the building, you know, which will be locking my back deck. Okay, so. Thank you. I'm Mrs. Susan Kelly and I live at 19 Rajasthreat. I'm a director butter and I oppose this project. I bought my house about 22 years ago. One of the reasons I bought that property was the open space in back. This project completely blocks the back of my house. The back deck will be no sunlight at all. Okay, thank you. Brad Mulholland, 23 Rajasthreat. I'm a director butter. I'd like to go on a record of a position. I believe that he's taking up a lot of space. I'll have no view outside my back deck and basically be touching against the back of the building. I agree that the use of the property right now is not sufficient. There is a lot of derelict behavior back there. But I think the size of the building should be, yeah. So, I'm ready. Thank you, Councillor. I'd like you to address the current condition and current maintenance. The rear yard, what the rear yard is and the location of any AC or other systems like that. I'm sorry. I'm sharing, is the first step in current owner is not my client. I'm saying that the person who is buying the property and contingent on it, he has no building to maintain the current property because he's not the owner. But some of the issues that came up through the neighborhood process could be gauge on either side to walk through some problems, throw a use and prostitution activity on the site into the church. So, I think the backyard is the proposed crime of the building. So, that's something that can be done going forward as well as cameras installed, facing both the rear yard as well as the structure. So, tell us about the rear yard. On the other side, the only really the requested area and from a dimensional standpoint is very nice. We have a 15-foot rear yard setback and they provided 15 feet with the shell line and the rear yard setback requires a 3-foot side yard setback. Now, close to the audition was on Roger Street. As you look at drawing A1, I should see 23, 19, you can't see 15 feet in this particular way. But that's where it's coming from. Instead of a 3-foot side yard setback, which is all that the code requires, we have twice that at 60. Additionally, as I mentioned, showing how far away the deck is as it relates to the structure of the building, the rear yard setback is from 23 to 19. The wire is significantly less by half than the zoning wires. The height of the loudness area is 40 feet, although it has a rough view to come up. And we are below 40 feet from a high-missed wire. So, from a zoning perspective, other than eye-clubs, we're paying parking here generally in line. And what's the, and you're providing parking? Jeff? Yes, ma'am. This is a south Boston iPod. Does the BRA have a recommendation on this? It was approval with design review. approval with BRA design review. That's a staff recommendation on board. Yes, it is. Okay. You just had a quick question. I'm just looking at the three vehicles. Two full-size one compact. Does that work? Yes, it does. As long as 50% of the parking spaces are fired, not only 50% of the 10-D compact spaces, but the 7 foot by 18 foot space, the full-space 8-A is half by 20 feet. If you can ever be more than 50% in any of the neighborhood sections. I'm going to make a motion to approve with continued BPDA design review. Thank you. All those in favor? Motion carries. We trust you'll also be in touch with the abutters. Okay. Can 783 East Broadway come back to the table, please? What do you have in the matter, Jeff? The police put your name and address on the record. Then come on. The public will put $20.28 today, three Boston. Paul Skrivner, 16 Bacon Street, Hoover, Massachusetts. Tell me what the outcome of your conversation was. We had a conversation with the butter, Ms. McDowell. Her issues were the way the process was held. The community process, how we process was held. She didn't feel as adequate. At the time, my friend was not involved. She was supporting me that they held a butter's meeting at the property outside. Or whether it was in the comments, so they actually held it inside the property. Ms. McDowell, to do complications she recorded, surgery will not be able to attend. That was her complaint. My client has reached out to her personally enumerous occasions. But they were unable to have a fruitful conversation. I gave her a copy of full plans. As we have them today, she requested full-scale drawings, which I do not have. Okay. Given this information, may I have a motion please? Can I make a motion first that the no-building code really degree? Second. So it's a motion for approval? Is this, is this, is this? I was going to then make a motion for approval. You can do approval with no-building code really. Okay. It's a little bit vido. There's no need for a sign of you. It's all legalizing existing work. Okay. Motion to approve without the no-building code really. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. We understand you will continue your conversation with the abutter. We welcome to the United Composition. Thank you. Thank you very much. Madam Chair, it's only 1021. It cannot call the 1030s until it's on 30. I'm going to make a motion for this meeting is now adjourned until 1030. Anybody interested in requesting a deferral? Please, please line up. Thank you. Thank you for your work. It's better to be in this corner because then you can get both views. But you also know that this is the live stream. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Kevin. Sorry. No, no, no. You'll hold it. Okay. Okay. Okay. Yeah. We're working so that. We're working so that. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Yeah. I'm going to have many cases. Well, I'm going to get a bit scared of her. Do you want to put these on? Yeah, it's fine. Can you do that? Please. We'll treat the deferral. Okay. Yeah. These are all those. That's already great. We're going to drop it in the right place. Right. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Got one again. Don't worry. I'll see you. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Why not? You know your head. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. It's being deferred, so let us. Yeah. I'm going to read. I write the four story. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. Good morning. The Board of Appeals for Tuesday, May 7th is back in session. Just a reminder, please make sure your cell phones are off. Can I just have silence in this room, please? Make sure your cell phones are off and then conformance with the open meeting law. This meeting is being live streamed. If you're here to speak and support our opposition to a project, please give us new information when you are at the podium. Mr. Fortune. Thank you Madam Chair. Oh, excuse me. One last thing is the meeting for June from May 21st has been cancelled. If you have cases before on that date, it's been moved to June 25th. Everything will be re-abitized. Mr. Fortune. Thank you Madam Chair. I'm going to call the 10-30 hearings. Are there any deferrals with Drottles, Councillor address? 822 Canabary Street. Calling for the record, BOA 878, 988, 822 Canabary Street. Name and address for the record. Good morning. I'm Madam Chair and Members of the Board. My name is Kevin Cloutier from the Cloutier Law firm located at 190 Centres Street in West Roxbury. So tell us the reason for this request. Well, we've had two community meetings, but we still have to appear before the Mount Hope Canabary neighborhood association. We do have a date on June 13th, the reason for ONS notifying the zoning board of appeals that we are prepared is a miscommunication between myself and Mr. Coppinger, which I take responsibility for. So we just have one more neighborhood association meeting to appear before, and we expect to be prepared to present at the next available ZBA here. And have they been substantive changes to the project? They're having not been. They have not been. Okay, so this is just a check-in. Motion for deferral. All those in favour? Any opposed? The date may be? You have a date of July 30th, 1130. Councillor Adress, please. 80-street, 82-street. For the record calling, VOA89290880-street, VOA89291582-street. Name and address for the record, please. I'm honing with the business address of 160 Federal, and I'm requesting a deferral strictly for advertised to perfect advertising. Community process is complete. We are in position of the position with the neighbourhood, but advertising needs to be perfected. Did it, was there a violation that was not cited? There was one site that was changed in the notes section of the refusal letter, as well as going from proposed three families to a two family. So for this specific matter, I think it's important that it is re-optized. It's something that we've been in communication with as a marginable, but it just does as in case. Please. Is there a second? Second. All those in favour? Aye. Any opposed? The date please? You also have a date of July 30th at 1130. Thank you. The address? Councillor. Excuse me, was that for both 80 and 82? Yes. Okay. So do you have another one? Hold on, Jeff. Is there another one that you have? 80 and 82. No, are you deferring 1854, do you have a doachester avenue? No. Okay. Okay. God rest, Jeff. Please. 197-201 Green Street. For the record calling, BO874938197201 Green Street. Name an address for the record, please. Jeff Drago with Drago and Tiscana with an address of 15 Broad Street. We're here today before the board seeking a deferral. We complete our process in conversation with the mayor's office. There are some unresolved community issues that would like us to work on. So we are seeking deferral. May I have a motion for deferral? Is there a second? All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Do you have a date of July 9th at 1130? Thanks. I'll go over to the other. Are there any other deferrals or withdrawals for 1030? No. That's my excuse. We're going to call the first case. Calling BO8916653-2837-2839 Washington Street. This is directing new four, unit residential townhouse, dwelling with roof decks on a vacant lot, and proposed four on-suite parking. The violation is Article 50, Section 29. A lot with this insufficient to accommodate the three buildings. Article 50, Section 29, a lot frontages insufficient. Name an address for the record, please. My name is Scott Kirkwood. I'm with Boston Real Estate Collaborative. And we are at 1904 Washington Street. And just to start off, I want to see a thank you, Chairwoman and members of the board. Can you please do us a favor, Don't read. Just tell us what you're proposing to do. Okay. Sure. So we are proposing four units on the site. Like was said earlier, the only appearances we are seeking are four lot with and for lot frontage. You know, we feel that, you know, as far as the scale and density, it matches that of a surrounding community. So what's the zoning district? MFRLS. So MFRLS. Yes. And you're proposing four residential units. Yes, ma'am. Okay. And your only violation is lot frontage and lot block with. Right. And that's because of the lot itself has nothing to do with the construction. Yes. So tell us about the roof decks on this. There will be roof decks on the top of the front duplex unit. There is a middle two bedroom duplex unit and then there's one on a four bedroom duplex in the back. So three roof decks. Okay. Three roof decks. And obviously, you know, that's subject to design review. So we have to see if that'll. And how are they accessed? They are accessed directly from the units. Touch. Through a head house. Head house. So you're going to have three head houses up there. Okay. And tell us about the types of units, one bedroom, two bedroom, and the average square feet. We have a four bedroom duplex as the front unit. It's accessed directly from gray. That's about 1500 square feet. We have a two bedroom duplex in the middle that is about 850 square feet. We have a studio in the rear that is over 450 square feet. And then we have another four bedroom that is around 1300 square feet. And how is parking accommodated? In the rear of the site. Yeah. Yeah. Four parking space in the rear of the site. So again, that complies with Article 50 and those requirements. Okay. How do you plan on using the oven? Well, well confused actually on the elevations that you're showing the lines. You're showing the notations for a metal flat head house. The guy should not showing the head house. Does it not show the plants? No. On a 200 to a 1 and 202. It's the same. Right? Yeah. What if I might have missed the smoking? Does it show on the floor plans whether it's a hatch? All it says on the elevations is metal flat head house. And then there's arrows pointing to two vertical lines. But there's no head house. And on all your elevations, it looks exactly the same. So my elevations do show a head house, especially if you look on the front page. What's the date on your plan? The day of the day, 200 to a 1 and 202. It's over 2018. So perhaps that wasn't updated with it. But I do have plans here showing the locations of the head houses, side elevation and cavity. These are the plan terms, Town Act Hall, virtual 18. Yeah. So this shows the location so we got a head house. Wait for me when you're looking at it. This is the front page. And if you look from the middle, not the side plan. Look at any 104. It also shows the locations over the head house. And if you look at any 200, it shows the locations of the head house. It says metal flat head house. It says metal flat head house. But it doesn't show it. Oh, I have the same plans that I think you're looking at here and it does show it. So I'm not sure what. I'm happy to register. Can you mind stepping up here? Yes. In the room. Do you want me to come up as well? Come up here. In the big tab. Is anybody here to speak and support this proposal? It's from one of Madam Chair and members of the board. My name is Jessica Thomas. It's very thin. You can actually see it. It's like a very thin line. Excuse me. Can you take the voice down? Sorry. I can come on. Good morning, Madam Chair and members of the board. My name is Jessica Thomas with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. And we'd like to go on record to support the project. We met with the Neighborhood Association in the Abutters who was in support of the project. There will bring new home ownership to the area. Thank you. Is anybody here to speak in opposition? Nobody in opposition? Is there a resolution, Mr. Oloy? Well, if you have a really powerful magnifying glass, I guess you can see it. You know, it looks like this might need significant design review. Is that a light impression? Yes. Okay. May I have a motion, please? Motion to approve with significant BDD design. Second. All those in favor? Hi. Any opposed? And Jeff, can you make a note to make sure that it's more contextual, please? Following your next two cases, calling B-O-A-923-8181 Maple Street, companion case B-O-A-923-8191 Maple Street. This is the change of auction from a two to a three family. The violation of Article 50 Section 29, additional A-A-R, is insufficient. Article 50 Section 29, the Floyd A ratio is excessive. Article 50 Section 29, the usable open space, is insufficient. This is parking for two vehicles behind the home. The violation of Article 50 Section 43. Our speed parking is in load and requirement. Name and address, pull the record please. Good morning, Madam Chairman. My name is Frank Fini. 25 range vehicle park, range and exit. Tell us what's being proposed. A change in occupancy from two to three. This building was built in 1895. It's historically been occupied as a three family. My client is an on-roquement, quieted last year in 2018. It's covered in a number of two. So what's the evidence that it's been of three family? Has it been paying taxes? Has it been three family? How about utilities? It had been paying taxes as a three family up until 2002. And at some point it changed, for some reason it changed to two family. It's not proposed in any structural changes whatsoever. How about utilities? Any evidence that it's been occupied as a three family for utilities? We don't have any with me. My understanding is that the neighborhood needs and one acknowledge it and they're always been out in private as a three. And the neighborhood is important. And tell us about this unit. What's the square footage? Where is it? Is it in the basement? Is it in the top floor? In the top floor. And let's see. The square footage of the top floor would be 50. You can talk about my magnifying glass. 1518 square feet. Three bedroom? Three bedroom. Okay. How are the plans for the O-Lek? The drawings show existing conditions and no proposed conditions. Like some of that's because there's no work being done. There's no work being done. Okay. The drawings are erratic. And tell us about the parking. The parking we're proposing are two tandem spaces. As you look at the hall, it's behind the hall. It's a corner lot. And the width is 8.5 feet. So, we'll leave that. And we'll just get two of that. We'll also need a curb cut. So, it's in that water. Again, Mr. O-Lek, does that look like it's doable? Yeah. Any questions from the board? Does anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Good morning, Madam Chair and members of the board. My name is Jessica Thomas with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. And we'd like to go on record to support as well. We did have a butter's meeting in Met with the Neighborhood Association who was in support of the project. There was no opposition. Thank you. Is anybody here to speak in opposition? May I have a motion, please? Motion to approve. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. You're all set to approve. Thank you, Madam Chair. Calling BOA9291314-Hotfitstreet. This is a change of action from a one family to a two family. Creating access to a living room, second floor, turning dining and kitchen, adding master bathroom. Violation is out of 50 section 29. This is sufficient. Very good. Set back. Name and address for the record, please. My name is Broderick, I go to Barry and I live at 32 normal street in Melton. Nice. I'm sorry, your home address is 32 normal street in Melton. In Melton? Okay. So tell us what's being proposed. What we're actually proposing, the house is already been used as a two family. There's two gas mills in it. Have you been paying taxes as a two family? I don't know, I bought the house, so I went to the city. Sometimes you put the apartment on the city, then it's a single. They gave me a apartment for two. So I went to the out, that was to the inspector, I speak to the inspector. There was a family pool before on the house to convert it to two, but it wasn't completely done. So I'm just trying to make it right. Okay, and tell us how are you proposing to create the second unit? Actually right now the house is a six bedroom house with three living rooms. And as of four bathrooms exist. So the only thing we're doing is the first floor as a living room, as a very big kitchen, and as a spot that's been used as a dining room. So unit one will be the first floor, will be two bedrooms, a living room, and a kitchen. And it'll be only the first floor. It'll be only the first floor. Okay, how about unit two? Unit two we have a three bedroom, two living rooms. And so when you're proposing unit two will only be on the second floor? No, be second and third floor. Second and third floor? Yes. And it'll be a three bedroom. Yes. Okay, how are the plans Mr. Olin? The drawings are, you know, the proposal of the minimums of the drawings are okay. It is a stamp by an engineer who's supposed to an architect. It has separate utilities, etc. Yes. Okay. Any questions from the board? Is there anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Jessica, you're having a good day today. Good morning, Madam Chair and members of the board. My name is Jessica Thomas with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services, and we'd like to go on record to support as well. We had in a butter's meeting and also met with the neighborhood group who was in support of the project. No real opposition from any of the neighbors. Thank you. Is anybody here to speak in opposition? Yes. May I have a motion please? Motion to approve. Second. Wait, do you want, Ms. Olin? Do you want plans held until it's been signed by the legislature? No, I just, in the future, if you're bringing it up to case, you better have an architect stand for us. Okay, there's a motion that was second all those in favor? I have. Any opposed? Motion carries. Following an ex case, calling BLA904387123 to 125 Centreshreet. See the council is on his telephone outside. Let's keep going. He's at the next case as well. Yeah, thank you. Have a Geneva app. I'll go to the doorchester. Calling BLA9389271876 to 1876A, doorchester Avenue. Here with me for two seconds. This is a change of October 9th Apartment's here at Salon Day Spa, day here at the 9th Apartment's here at Salon Day Spa, a professional office in local retail. This is a construct second and third story addition to an existing building. Violates with Article 65, Section 9. The Florida Aratio is a success with Article 65, Section 9. The front yard is insufficient. Please. The only amount of Chairman is the board. My name is James Christopher. I see with the project architects with the business address, 415 at Ponset Avenue. The project for years 1876, 1882, doorchester Avenue. The honor seeks to add a second and third story addition to the following essentially, the missing tooth along the corridor of Dodge, doorchester Avenue. There's a two-story boy in between the building. The change in occupancy is more corrective. It happened years ago, but the legal occupancy was never changed. There's no work to take place with that. The net result is an addition of about 514 square feet of living space to two units. There's no change in occupancy, and it's simply to fill in the missing void and square out the building as it addresses doorchester Avenue. So this is guess essentially to fill out those units. Correct. Okay. We had an emergency meeting on site. It was one of the neighbors from the rear of the property hasn't concerned about the existing property trash storage, which the owner has assured me that he's looked into and made a point to take care of. And how are the plans, Mr. Oleg? Drawings for adequate. Any questions from the board? Does anybody here just speak and support of this proposal? Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is face tree for the mayor's office of neighborhood services. We would like to go on record and support of this proposal, and we ask that there will be design review included, especially for the commercial space. Yeah, yeah. Go ahead. We're going in support, but also requesting that design review be added for the commercial spaces. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. Joan, we got Christie Council, Frank Baker's office. We'd like to go on record and support. Thank you. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. Jen Cartay for Greater Ashmont Main Street. This is one of the designated Main Street parcels. Due to an oversight from Office of Neighborhood Services, we were not looped into the abutters process here, or have seen the plans. I sent some email yesterday to Madam Chair with our position on essentially the same project from 2010, just urging design review because of the NDOD overlay here. And we would love to be kept in the loop going forward. Excellent. Thank you. Is anybody here to speak in opposition? My name is Peter Honein. My mother is a future honie. She lives at Successmont Park in Boyd, South. She's been in the airport. Well, she moved in in 1972. So tell us what the opposition is based on? The opposition is based on a trash disposal. The trash is being disposed on Ashmont Park. This has been a 20 plus year issue. I was at the abutters meeting, and I was told that I was unique. The improvements would come to my attention about how the trash would be improved. Again, it's been the abutters meeting was on March 11th. Nobody has contacted me. The architect who's sitting here, I spoke to him, and I explained all my, the child who had to him. He said he would get back to me with improvements, the owners. They told me they would get back to me with improvements. They also committed to me that they would start making improvements immediately. I have pictures here from the past eight weeks since the abutters meeting showing that. Has I SD been called about the scarmage issue? Yes. They have. There's been no resolution to it from the city. Unfortunately, what we keep saying, what we keep hearing is rats. Show us rats, and we can take care. So what happens is this dumpster comes down our private dead end street at 5.35, 40 in the morning. Let's up this two ton dumpster. So empty it and then slam it down. I have pictures here that represent the trash overflowing each week. Okay. Thank you. I'm good. You have to put that in the record, please. I love it. If I may, I'm not worried. And so besides trash, what else? Well, for the record, I'm quite a Mr. Fandell from the mayor's office was there. He also heard all of my concerns. And I must say I'm quite surprised that the mayor's office would approve these changes. Thank you. So, the mayor is a student. It's all good. Councillor, thank you, sir. You may have a seat. Does anybody else speak in opposition? Please put your name and address on the record. And chair, board members. Name is Donna Smith. I'm at Draco street, nine Draco street. I live quite close to this property. There's already no parking. There's very little in the back. And there's two-hour parking on the front. People use and they stay there all day, every day. You call it a city. They don't come out. They park in the busway. They park more than two-hour limit. They block my driveway. So this is on street parking. Well, there's very little... Okay, they want to add two other floors. I'm sorry? They want to add two other floors. There's already no parking. Okay. They're back parking lot. There's not enough parking back there. So when they don't park, I can't find a parking lot. They block my driveway. They're courtesy, BBB. People come out when they're done. If they're in the laundry mat, they come out when they finish the laundry. If they're cooking their dinner or doing whatever they're doing to visit somebody, they don't come out until they're done. If they're in a beauty shop, they don't come out to the done. No, they don't come out to the normal. Do they shovel their property? Okay, thank you. So thank you, ma'am. So obviously it sounds like there is... Since you are now today, the face of this property and property owner, sounds like there are serious operational issues, maintenance issues, and how is that all getting addressed? I'll certainly address it with the owner again, Ma'am, Jeff. The body's meeting, and I did mention that we spoke with the gentleman who was the rear body about the trash condition. The owner's committed to looking at fixing that fence when we get into construction, not immediately. And also discussing with the trash pickup company about the time in which the trash picked up, and the owner has told me personally that he's gone over there and made sure that the dumpster is not overflowing and that they're in that trash. How about just general maintenance? It sounds like there's also not enough maintenance. Sir, thank you. This is not a conversation. How about... It sounds like there is no enforcement about certain issues related to parking. It also sounds like there's no shoveling on the street. Sidewalk. I'm not a resident of the building, but a few times that I was there and the wet-to-win, there was no shovel. But I will certainly make sure that the owner understands the implications of that moving forward. And as far as parking, I mean it's a do-it-dress-or-out. This building has parking in the rear sufficient enough for the residential units of the building. We're not increasing the unit count. We're not changing the occupancy. So who is the owner of the building? The body of the wall. He's here today not changing the back of the room. Can you please come forward, sir? Please put your name and address on the record. Yes, my name is Claudia Volas. Okay, so you're hearing all the issues that the abutters have with your property. Correct. Yes? Yeah. Okay, so... So, so... So, do you live in the home? No. No, this is a nine unit apartment. No, what's your address? My address is 53 Beaumont Street, Dorchester, Massachusetts. Thank you. Okay, so there are issues with your building. We will take a motion and decide on this particular process. But I would suggest very highly that at the conclusion of our disposition of this property that you speak with the abutters, and perhaps I could be somebody from the mayor's office of neighborhood services to really bring closure to this. Okay. May I have a word, madam? Is there anything that should be put in the record from anybody in opposition? Just put it in the record here so that we have it with us. Okay? In the meantime, may I have a motion, please? I'm going to make an motion to approve with continued... With any BPD and... Yes, yes. Yes, yes. Yeah, continued BPD design review, yeah, stringent design review. Okay. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Your project has been approved. However, I'm expecting to see you out there with the abutters to have a conversation about maintenance and...of your property. Okay. We've always been here. Bring it to closure today, please. Thank you. I'm going to go back to a couple of the cases I've called earlier. I'm going to go BOA904, 387-123-125 Centra Street. This is directly nine unit building, 11 parking spaces. A violation of Article 65 Section 8. Townhouse type residential unit is of Abidanyu's. Article 65 Section 9 of the main entrance. Access location shall face the front lot line. Article 65 Section 9 of the Florida A ratio is excessive. Article 65 Section 9 of the front yard. Setback is insufficient. Article 65 Section 9 of the height is excessive in stories. And Article 65 Section 9 of the height is excessive in feet. Please give me an address for the record, please. That attorney, that's Bajani with the business address of 160 Federal Street. Thanks. Representing the project owner, Brian Crowley, 4123-125 Centra Street. Then along with Rudy Architects, this is address 535-Alpes, 3405. So, Taros, what's being proposed? And Chair, members of the board, the current property at 123-125 is 2 family home on 13,454 square foot lot. On Centra Street, squarely the same arts neighborhood association. The proposal here is to raise existing structure. Demo Delay has been completed. And erected nine unit residential building, Fondo Home ownership. The dimensional requirements or rather setbacks are met. The front yard is 10 feet more than what the existing model requirements is. The 30 foot rear yard setback is met. The side yard, the front yard is 10 feet, one side is 10 feet, the other side is a little bit more at the varying 13 feet and one to 11 feet from the other side. There is a height violation open verbal distance above grade 35 feet is at height. The tallest part of this building is in the center. The portion of the lawn where it gets to be upwards of 38, which means the three foot and excessive is required. As well as height and number of stories, 2.5 stories above grade is the requirement. There is no open space violation in the parking requirement. There is 11 spaces, specifically 10 and a half, which technically is 10 and 11 are being provided. The FAR again, what did you say? We are seeking relief for a poor area ratio. .5 is what's allowed 1.1 is which we provide here. And tell us how access to the parking is supposed to work. On the right side of the lawn is existing curb cut to access the current parking. It will be maintained in the center foot. You will be required for a drive access. We have 14 on that side. Looking at the first page of the drawing, you will see the parking access to the right on the right side. The parking is open and it is open and it is open and it is open and it is open and it is open. There is no roof to act as being proposed. Any living space in the basement? No. Okay. How are the plans? I will draw in the anchor. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak and support of this proposal? Morning Madam Chair, members of the board. Joe McGeckeren, City Council, Frank Baker's office. We would like to go and record and support. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is Michael Fallon and I am vice president of the City Council and also member of the City Council. This is the development of the City Council. We know the developer and his team, the national developer, is outside of the City Council. The City Council and the development team was involved in the very beginning. So you don't need to read the letter. You can put it in the record but just highlight what your letter says. I am January 29. This development can be for the final meeting. It can be for the St. Marriott Civic Association and 90% portion of the project. And also the development committee. All five members, portion of the project. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Anybody else to speak and support? My name is Scott. I work for Mohawk Relastate and the Doach Esther. And what's the your last name and what's the address? It's got Collins. This is, this is called 123 Centretry. And just to go up a piece that the St. Marx had the vote there and it was 26 to 3 in favor. This is the St. Marx issue. As a rebuttal to the opposition, they said. I'm not just to give us why you're in support. Well, I collected signatures and I spoke to the neighbors. I had 86 signatures in favor. And Doach Esther, 16 were a butter. How about Marriott's of the case? Well, that's what I have. Thank you. You can put the signatures into the record. Thank you. Thank you. Is anybody here to speak in opposition? First, I'd like representatives of elected officials. And again, just to remind us, give us new information. Do not repeat what somebody else has said. Okay? Go ahead. Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board, my name is face the shrewd with Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. We would like to go on record, post the project based on some lack of a butter support. We have heard from three different civic associations that are opposed to this. I understand that they do have support from St. Marks, but many of the concerns that we had were related to density and the number of units proposed. Thank you. Thank you. So your name and address on the record? And please just give us what your opposition is being... My name is Don Elgraves. I live at 13 Austin Street. I'm an owner-occupied. I'm a direct bullet to this property. And the problem I have with it is many problems. We had a meeting... Of course, tell me about your opposition. Okay, I'm telling you the opposition is... We had a meeting with the Melville Park Association with their brothers, and we did not approve of the existing property because of their creeds density and because of the traffic and the parking issues that it bring. Since then, he has not wanted to come to see us to renegotiate any kind of deal. We are not... And I am not against any kind of development, but because of the creeds traffic and density and parking that it will cause it's totally insane. Because right now the parking situation and the traffic situation is horrendous. In the street and also Austin Street has a lot of traffic. And it's a two-way street. When it's real busy, which is a lot of time, it turns the two-way streets into one-way streets in many times. So hold on, sir. So let me see if I get this. So basically your three issues were density, traffic and parking, and the desire for a loop back from the developer back with the community and with you. Okay, so now I've heard these three issues. Anybody else, please give me additional information. Thank you, sir. Thank you. Give me additional information, please. My name is Dominic Aceta and I'm an officer of the Melville Park Association. First of all, I want to mention that this particular parcel actually falls within the boundaries of three neighborhood associations, St. Marks, Melville Park and Codman Square. So there are three groups. Plus it abuts Loach Park, which has its own group of people that are always concerned about what's going on around the park. The developer had his lawyer come in November and make a presentation to us. Please tell us what your opposition is biggest on. Well, you've got the three issues that were already raised. Yes, don't know. Donnell mentioned the issue of density and parking, which are major. But also the fact that the house is going to be demolished. We're a neighborhood that prides ourself on being historic. Many of the houses are beautiful, but a lot of them are just near standard old houses. This house is over 150 years old. And to simply tear it down and build something that kind of looks like it isn't what we're looking for. And I emailed the lawyer, Patrick, back in December and offered to pull together a meeting of all three neighborhood associations, representatives of them, and members of the Friends of Loach Park. And so that we could all sit down and discuss some discussion issues. He declined to do that. And the plans that he's currently presented to you, we never saw. He made changes based on the plans that were submitted to St. Mark. And that's what I'm assuming you have there. We never saw those. He never presented them to our association for review. So we've been basically left out of the loo on this project. Okay, thank you. Okay, new information, Matt? Yes, good morning. My name is Sally Graham. I'm at 28 Moultre Street. I am also with the Melville Park Association. I'm one block from this development. I'm a member of the Friends of Doctor Lesh Park. And I'm also on the board of the Codman Square neighborhood council. Just to my concerns are just as Dominic and Dunnell have already expressed. I also represent Norma and Orlando Diaz. They are direct abutters at 117th Center Street. They were unable to be here today. They are in Puerto Rico dealing with family issues. I spoke with them last week. They are opposed to this development. The developer and his attorney have not approached them. They are right next to it. It will add incredible density, the same concerns that have already been expressed. Thank you. Thank you very much for your consideration. Thank you. Can you take a look at the hack, please? Thank you. Good morning. My name is Lady Wehr. I live at 50th Center Street. I have been there for 22 years. And I just want to put on the record I can pair with whatever I want. Thank you. So it sounds to me that the issue really that I'd like to hear from. Because I think you've addressed the demolition issue with the historic building. Because you've gone through the demolition process. Yep. Okay. Can you talk please about the process, about closing the loop with the butters? I'm sorry, one minute. Are you speaking in opposition? No. Yes. I am. Okay. May I have your name? Your name? Okay. I'm in the lower area. What's your address? My address. It's business management. Okay. I'm going to ask you to support our opposition. I only wish you do what they're trying to do. Okay. So you're in opposition. Okay. Thank you. Thank you very much. Okay. So please discuss about closing the loop about outreach to the butter. Let's finish here. So this has been a lengthy community process. We began approximately 9 to 10 months ago. And it began before I was asked with an intimate group from me at the time before I was in the property with the current owners as well as the direct to butters, his neighbors. And it was myself and then the architect. And the group of intimate butters that were generally in support of the couple. None of those people have identified any opposition butters that are at the end of the week. And those were all the continuous butters at that time. And I say it continues to be a natural butter to the property. And since then we had in the waters meeting and there was some other groups that was identified to me that other groups would be interested in the project. It has it is in St. Mark St. Bruce Association. Regardless about territory, I just want to make sure that the butters were adequately notified. So they have direct to butters. Why about two agents to butters meetings. We presented as a courtesy to Melville Park. Not in this association but a neighboring one as well as a courtesy to Cogniz Square. I met with the president of Cogniz Square prior to that. So before we began to talk a little bit about the project. And some concerns, although you know, not in support now, who are based on the design. The initial design work was, it was a larger townhouse, units and a more modern front of the building. So you've addressed the first first round of concerns. In Melville Park, although we did not hear in support, the current change that has been emailed to them both for myself and the architect was to change entirely the design. It was a modern building initially and then it was a hybrid, modern traditional style. And now although we couldn't say the existing structure, which would be beneficial to the developer because it's close to the front yard. Okay, Councillor. I just wanted to make sure there was due diligence and specifically that the directive butters were well contacted. We've had more meetings for this project and a live project, probably. Okay. Given all this information, may I have a motion? I'm going to make a motion to approve with continued BPDD design review and continued work with the neighbors. All those in favour? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries but that provides them. Calling the next case. Calling BOA, 931-125. 1854, Dorchester Avenue. Councillor, before we go forward on this one, I just want to give you a... They postponed this case supposedly to June 11th to re-abitise case to an incorrect refusal letter. Can you maybe explain to us? Maybe. Thank you. I will. I just wanted to make sure before I read it into the records. It was just the correct parking parking is on the agenda. Okay. Today, the initial legal letter was corrected in February. Okay. Very good. Okay. This is a construction of the 9-joyling unit parking in the bottom floor and retail store. The violation of the Article 65 Section 41, Office of the Parking Requirements is insufficient. Article 65 Section 9. A lot of you are for additional dwelling units is insufficient. Article 65 Section 9. The floor of the ratio is excessive. Article 65 Section 9. The height is excessive in stories. Article 65 Section 9. The height is excessive in feet. Article 65 Section 9. The front yard setback requirement is insufficient. Article 65 Section 9. The side yard setback requirement is insufficient. Article 65 Section 9. The rear yard setback requirement is insufficient. Name and address for the record please. I'm turning that to my honing with the business address of 160 Federal Street. I'm going to say callable check, who is 9-1B here today. But is the current order of 1854 for gesture? This is advertised, etc., etc. and you're proceeding today. That's correct. There was a change in the refusal letter on February 28th to address the parking violation. And that is on the agenda today. I guess. Relief being sought. The proposal has changed slightly. I should before I take us into it in the change, it's been to increase parking from what was initially five spaces to nine spaces. There is still relief for parking being sought today. And what's required on parking? It's 10.5 spaces. Okay. So tell us what's being proposed. The proposal is existing with a one-story retail building or industrial building, the corner of Rentham and Dorchester app. And in this building essentially expands upon that footprint, although that building is being raised at 1854, Dorchester app. And the proposal is to have a nine-arcont spaces through the through a relocated curb cut on Rentham. That current cut will be reduced significantly, but it will remain to be a position further towards Dorchester app in the middle of the building. Best drawing for that. It would be A1. A101. Additionally, there's a small retail space in the first floor, 535 square feet of retail, as well as two residential units per floor above the first floor, to be three residents of the house. It's two bedrooms, one room bedroom, a unit position on each level, four is two, three, and four. It will be a rental building with elevator access from the lobby. Two each area. In addition to the nine-arcont spaces, one of them are inclusive of the nine-arcont spaces. The developer has offered to provide two passes with each, something that was recommended through the community process. Tach 10. There's no roof deck. Okay. How are the plans, Mr. Oleg? Drawing very early. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak in support of this report? Good morning, Madam Chair and Members of the board. My name is Feast of Shreve with Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. We would like to go on record and support and ask that the PDA also does design review for this proposal. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Joe McGefgren City Council, Frank Baker's Office, would like to go on record and support. Madam Chair, members of the board, I'm like a former vice president of St. Mark's Civic Association. This project can be for St. Mark's Civic Association meeting and those all will quite make support. Thank you. Are you speaking in support? Yeah, position out of chair. Okay. It's anybody here to speak in opposition. Good morning, Madam Chair and Members of the board. Jen Cartay with Greater Ashmont Main Street. I have a formal letter for the record. I have a copy for each of the board members if you wish. Do you want to a true word. I suspect for this expedition I'll start having the motion. One flaw is that the topic is epidemiology but ultimately that's on the satellite page if we can share the images of the areas around Ilux, I think. Our recommendation for babies isANB, with enthusiasm by the developer. We understand that the buttersmaiden was very contentious. Before it went to the full St. Mark Civic Association, instead of reducing the parking spaces and increasing to about 1,000 square feet, which in our experience is a much more rentable space, they went down to just over 500 square feet and added more parking spaces. And so we have concerns about how it flushes out this part of the district that it were charged with the economic revitalization of. Thank you. Your opposition, please put your name and address on the racket. I am a parade, I don't know what to do right now. Straight on the adorning the weather. We're just being my mom, Hercules and the brother. She's a 75 year old woman. She has very concerns. What are the concerns? First on light, we'll be affected. She's an awful time. She plans her vegetables. That's the key. Concerning. You know. You can't turn about that. Parking is a huge issue in the area. You already have parking situations. Windows gets national time because some of parts are from some of the driveways and things like that. You don't want it to be a whole big destination concern. You can turn about, you know, after contraction, the roadings that are going to be surfacing. Just get a thing and come to our house. She's not only one kid. We never got a new code. We just seen the first plan. We never seen the second plan with the other parking. We think that they said the curve cut is already a curve cut there. Now they can split those in other parking spots. I'm trying to just very concerning the road. Okay. Thank you. Concerning. I like to have the most updated plans. I'm sorry, I'm a little bit broke English. Alive in their house. Alive in their house. I speak to my daughter. But I want to speak to myself. I live in their house for 40 years. And we never always got a problem because people they go to Ashmont station, take a train, and they leave the perfect on the rent ministry. Now, imagine for this nine unit they want to build a there. Now, should they get a mocha, more traffic, and blast the mouse when they got to take the road, the mouse they got to be a tremendous. So, I really, I was really worried about that because I do the vegetable. The buildings they got come very high. They got to make a nine unit. Now they got all just a little garage there. Now, imagine when they got to put a nine unit, they got to block all my window, all the sand. I can't do no yet. I can't do nothing. So, thank you. Thank you. Thank you. So, doesn't Mr. Arley have the most updated plans? Yes, he does. Since there was some days ago, and they get more recently, two weeks ago. Okay, it sounds like perhaps after a decision is made here, you need to be in touch with the butters, make sure they see the most recent plans. Given all this information, may I have a motion please? We'll make a motion to approve with continued BPDA design review, and special attention to our friend on Draper Street. Is there a second? Friend, sorry. Is there a second? All those in favor? Hi, hi. And you close? Motion carries with that proviso. Calling BOA 922-385-481-487 Geneva Avenue. Geneva Avenue here. This is a change box for a restaurant, 36A offices store a restaurant, the 36A offices, Nails Salon Ventilation System tables and chairs, and an existing space. The violation, dot, equals 65, section 8, and Nails Salon is for venue. Just a little recklessly. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Marianne Bias. Thank you a lot, Miss. For 87 Geneva A, or chest, so it's going to work on the floor. And I'm here because I want to support with the permanent permits. So this is a conversion from a store to a nail salon, right? So how many chairs and what are the hours of operation? I have three manicure chairs and two manicure chairs. So five chairs and what are your hours of operation? 915-26. How many days? For now? Seven days. Seven days a week? Okay. What's the... Mark, does that say what zoning district it's in? Yeah. It is in the... 2.5,000. Okay. Let's see. How are the plans, Mr. Alex? The drawings are adequate and I actually want to compliment you on the drawings because they specify ventilation units, which I know is a big problem, and they help the nail salon industry. And they are called out on multiple occasions in multiple ways. That's good. Okay. You've just asked them... They're right at the door and there's a sign right up. What is that noise? Okay. Let me just see. Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board, my name is Vaci Shree from the Mayor's Office of Nape Head Services. We would like to go on record and support. Thank you. Thank you. Morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Dustin Gardner on behalf of City Council President Andrea Campbell's Office. We'd also like to go on record and support. Is anybody here to speak in opposition? Does this building have grades in front of on the window? Yes. Superdefeated? Yes, thank you. Oh, thank you. May I have... Also, is there going to be new signage? No. It's not the last time. It's going to say the same. The same. Is there a kind of same thing? Yeah. Have a motion please? Motion to approve. Oh. I see. Oh, yeah. A motion to approve. Yes. Thank you. May I have... Also, is there going to be new signage? No. No. It's not... It's not the last time we have seen the same thing. It's going to say the same thing. You're going to say the same thing. of this thing. So. Yeah, so for the great removal. Is there a second? Second. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Calling the last case for 1030. Calling B-O-A-9-3-3-655-288. Washington Street. This is seeking change of opportunity permitting in order to renovate the existing commercial property into an auto rental location. Violation.51, section 16. 53 screening and buffer requirements. Name and address for the record please. Good morning Madam Chair, members of the board, attorney Nick Sizzula, McDermick, Quilty and Miller, 28 State Street, Suite 802 in Boston. With me to my immediate right is Josh Maxwell from Enterprise Renocara, the appellant. To my far right is Scott Rogers from J.K. Hombren Engineering, the project engineer. A little bit of background. We have a handout just to fill out the first one. The project engineer. A little bit of background. We have a handout just to familiarize you with the property and in the project. Properties located at 288 Washington Street in Brighton. It's the corner of Winship, Cambridge and Washington Street. It's a unique corner lot that fronts kind of Juts out into Washington Street. It's a little over 5,000 square foot lot. It's currently an auto body shop. It's a long standing, long existing gas station service use. Currently the alpha omega for car service station. What we're proposing is in line with the historic use of the property. We're proposing to change the use of an occupancy to a rental car use for enterprise rental car. And the change, you know, we think is very similar in nature. Is this zoning NS? Is it Navy shopping? Yes, it is. So that's why it's been used as CC is where it's allowed. Yes. So we would suggest and submit that the proposal is in line with the long standing existing use as a service shop. This is a car rental agency. However, we'd also submit that, you know, what's being proposed is less impactful to the community. Less impactful to the environment. Less noise. Less fumes. Less exhaust. We'll be managed appropriately by a long time operator of rental cars in the city. Very familiar with urban settings and with how to manage a lot of the size and this type in the city. What are the proposed hours of operation? Proposed hours of operation on Monday through Friday, 7.30 a.m. to 6.00 p.m., Saturday, 9.00 to 12. 9.00 a.m. to 12 noon only, Sunday closed. We did meet with the BAAIA on January 10th. I don't know if anybody's here from the group today, but they did vote in support. We also held an abouter meeting on April 1st with the mayor's office. No abouter showed up at that meeting. And this proposed enterprise sign is new. So the sign itself is existing. That's an existing sign that's there, obviously, it's not for enterprise because they're not there yet. It's an existing condition. Is that legal? Because there are some number of illegal signs in Brighton. My understanding is that it is. We weren't cited for signage. We actually are improving the condition by lowering the sign by at least five feet from where it is now. The sign is... What would be the height then? 15 feet. Yeah. Probably right around 15 feet. It's probably close to 20 foot if not more of a sign. And it's in need of repair. So I think we'd be improving the existing condition. Obviously it'd be a nice, clean, very basic sign as you can see in the rendering. That's a tough hit to the second. Are you going to be cutting back on the cut there? No, the curve cuts would be used as existing. There's one on, I believe, Winship Street and there's one on Cambridge Street. There is no direct access to Washington Street. It's onto the side streets. Just a quick question. How many vehicles are going to be on site? 15. 15 vehicles only of which I think a few of them are employee spots actually. So that if you can see to the left of the garage door, those, I believe, would be the employee spots. In this rendering, it doesn't show. It's just a trade-dress rendering. If you look on the 15. If you looked at the second and last page in our handout, that's actually from HomeGrim Engineer. And that shows the accurate description and spacing of the spots. And that's how it's used now. Vehicles are parked right there in front. They're parked by the auto body shop in those locations. How are the plans, Mr. Oleg? Drawing a red group. Any questions from the board? Does anybody here have to speak in support of this? Just to the extra love. And when you have run our intensive as red at the apex of the corner. But is there something that you can consider in terms of the side areas of all wants and tend in winter streets? So we can look at that. That's an existing fence. That's there. It's actually a pretty good condition. So we've preferred it's in a longstanding condition there. What we are proposing, as you can see on the engineering plan, the landscape plan is a whole bunch of that area in front of the fencing. It's just grass and weeds. And what we're proposing is to obviously make that a nice plan. Things we have a whole layer of, you know, we'll have mulch and a whole layer, you know, whole additional scope of landscaping to add there. We could certainly look at that. I don't know what that would mean for access to the lot. So you will go and speak in support? Yes, ma'am. Madam Chair, members of the board, Conor Newman with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. We'll go and record support of this project. As the applicant mentioned, we held in the butters meeting no concerns were raised. They went in front of the Brighton Austin Improvement Association. Received overwhelming support. We feel this is a great opportunity to actually take more cars off of the street. It gives Brighton residents a chance to maybe not have a car ownership, but rent a car every now and then in the event that they need one. Thank you. Morning, ma'am Chair, members of the board. Daniel Polanco, may I have councilor C. M. Would councilor Lecdogot record in support? Thank you. Morning, ma'am. She and members of the board, Karen Foley, councilor Saby George's office. We'd like to go on record of support. Thank you. Morning, ma'am. She and members of the board of final service represented a car from proceeding. Would I go and record support of this project? Thank you. Is anybody here to speak in opposition? May I have a motion, please? Motion to approve with continued BPDA design. Can we look at extending the screening and buffering to Washington Street so that that solidifies that corner? Is there a second? All those in favor? No, I have. Any opposed? Motion carries. Thank you. Morning, ma'am. Take a 10 minute break and we will be back in session at 4-12. Are there any deferrals or withdrawals you can come up to the podium and we'll get them out. Thank you. You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You 1130, are there any defrosal withdrawals? Councilor address please. 66 are angry street. For the record calling B-O-A 812-800-666-R, Cambridge Street, naming address to the record please. Student Milo and their McQuilty and Miller, 28 State Street in Boston. Sicking into the phone, my client still wants to attempt to work with the voters in the community to see if they can work out a mitigation plan. How many deferrals have you, has this project had? Seven. Seven? No, no, several. I think two or three. Okay, okay, Mayor. We need the third. Mayor, have a motion please. Make a motion for deferral. Is there a second? All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? The date please. We're going to do September 10th at 1130. Thank you very much. Are there any other deferrals withdrawals? 40 to 27. And 33 Jenkins. And in turn for Jenkins. For the record calling B-O-A 917-597-27Vinton Street, this companion case B-O-A 917-602-33 Jenkins Street, naming address to the record please. Board of Madam Chair and Members of the Board, my name is George Marians, I'm an attorney with the business address of 350 West Broadway and South Boston Madam Chair and Members. At the first hearing, this was deferred to allow for the Andrew Square Civic Association to review and vote on this. At that meeting, in a butter, had some concerns and objections. My client then had to meet with that butter before Andrew Square was in a position to vote. That meeting has occurred. We are not able to get on the May Andrew Square Civic Association agenda. The June meeting will be held on June 12th. Therefore, respectfully request an extension to allow us to present Andrew Square. So, are there substantial and substantive changes? None. None. No changes. My client resolved many issues with conversations with the butter. The butter still, I believe, has an objection to the right side. Setback. But the key point here is that we've been asked to defer it to allow the Andrew Square process to play out and allow them to have a vote on the matter. May I have a motion, please? Motion for deferral. There are seconds. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries the date. The officially pushed us into August 13th, 2019 at 1130. Any other deferrals or withdrawals for 1130 rediscussions? Hearing none, I'll call the first. Two cases calling VOA8453265E638. There was a companion case VOA84528605E63. This is both of you knowing to read that into the right-hand and waiting. That's in the law of conversation today. I'm going to have to request a deferral. And this? It's okay. It's so 536. My name is George Moranci. You called it into the record, I believe? Yes, I have, sir. My name is George Moranci. I'm an attorney with the business address of 350 West Broadway in Sal Boston. The question of deferral in this matter. How many of the deferrals is this? Isn't the second. And why is it? Because right now we're in a position where the elected officials will not support this without an additional community meeting. I think who don't want to go forward with in the face of opposition from some of the elected officials? Right. The additional opposition. My client has been working with directed butters for the better part of six months. This baby needs second deferral. I'm not even sure. Today we were making progress of the demnler revised that additional signatures are nearby residents here last night. And we've been asked to. So it sounds like you need a bit longer deferral than mayor. I think we're in agreement that we certainly don't need a longer deferral. I think that we need to have, I'm sure that we need to have one meeting because my clients have made a number of concessions to the point where we're nearly in agreement with the directed butters. But we have been requested to have one more meeting before proceeding. Okay. I think we could do this very quickly. I realize that the board has expanded out. Mayor, have a motion, please. Motion to defer. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. A date, please. Again, we're into August, 813. We are full. We are full in June and July. Okay. See you then. Okay. We're going to see if we have a lucky winner here. There are no more deferrals or trials. Okay. So we're going to call for the recke calling BLA 921-538-92 George Street. This is just directed for three story building with eight residential units and nine parking spaces. Violated Article 50 Section 28. The multi-family dwelling is a forbidden use. Article 50 Section 29. Additional lot of areas insufficient. Article 50 Section 29. The fluidier ratio is excessive. Article 50 Section 29. Use of law open spaces insufficient. Article 50 Section 29. Front yard is insufficient. Article 50 Section 29. The side yard is insufficient. Article 50 Section 29. The rear yard is insufficient. Article 50 Section 32. A multi-family dwelling is forbidden use. The amenant address full the record, please. Thank you, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Attorney Jeff Drego from Drego, and Tuscano, with an address of 15 Broad Street. With me, I have the owner, Gene Bernstein, and developer of 92 George Street. As I've mentioned, we're proposing on a vacant law to erect a three-story building with eight residential condominium units and nine interior parking spaces that would go directly with those units. This particular district falls under two separate zoning districts that right across this block. One of them is the new market IDA, and the other one is a 3F-4000 sub-district. The total lot size is 8,527 square feet, and the gross square footage of the building is 9,867 square feet. I'm just going to go over the bedroom and the unit sizes and bedroom count. With the four plans, we've got four two bedrooms on average, or 1,185 square foot two beds. And then we have four one bedrooms at 675 square feet. The first floor includes nine parking spaces, bike wrap, a bike wrap, and elevator lift. Second floor houses units one through four, third floor units five through eight. We worked diligently with community process, and we did get a letter of support from the DSNI group from this neighborhood. With that, we worked on changes from our original plan. And those changes, just to mention, that was why we saw the deferral the last time. One was reducing the building from a four-story building to a three-story building, which eliminated our height violation. We reduced the actual height from 38 feet to 30 feet. And our unit count was reduced from nine units to eight units. And our row square footage went from originally 14,246 square feet to 9,867 square feet. But your FAR is 1.15. So since you have split between the strengths, it's probably not very high. And your yard insufficiency is a huge block for those. So you want to go to reach one, Matt? Okay. So because it's split from two different groups, the new market really doesn't trigger any violations, just one, but the three F4,000 is very mostly their trigger. The additional lot area, 2000 required per unit, we're only at 6,525. FAR, allowable, in that is 0.8, we're at 1.15. High, you now meet, so that's a triggered prior. Usable open space, 650 per dwelling unit, we're at 481. And then with our side yard, we meet it on the right side of 10 feet, but on the left side we're at 1.8. Left side, I'm sorry, is 1.8? On the left side, just where it jogs out, but it's a building sort of, if you see a picture of the site plan. Okay, and this is an elevator building? Yes. And the handicap unit. Exactly for you. And tell me about this garage door. So it's right on the front of the building? So is there anything in particular you? Yes, I think author knows by now that they're not very open to garage buildings that look like these garage buildings. So we need to make sure that there's a clear message that we need something that's more welcoming and friendly. You can definitely work with the BPDA on the design review to change that. How are the plans Mr. Bollock? I've got two sets of plans and one of the most recent is 415. Yes. Correct. Okay. With that, it reflects the changes. Absolutely. Okay. The drawing ready. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak and support of this proposal? Good afternoon Madam Chair and Members of the board. My name is Jessica Thomas with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services and we like to go and record to support pending BPDA review. As they mentioned, they did meet with the community groups. They met with two neighborhood associations and had two of butters meetings, which originally there was some opposition, but they did decide to work with the community to scale the skill at back a bit and also hire local contractors. Good morning Madam Chair and Members of the board. My name is Michaela Parkins from City Council, Kim Shinny's Office. We would also like to go on the record, give them conditional support. As the development team mentioned, they did make changes based on community concerns and they will be working with the BPDA. Give them the design review. Thank you. Thank you. Anybody else who speak and support? Good morning Madam Chair and Members of the board. My name is Ben Murphy from the New Market Business Association. We met with the browser several months ago. They have since made some changes that we requested, although we are disappointed that they did not come back to speak with us again. After that, we recognize that the neighborhood is in support and we will default to the neighborhood's opinion. Thank you. Is anybody here to speak in opposition? May I have a motion please? Motion to approval. Good night, Gary. Good night, we do. All those in favor? Hi. Any opposed? Jeff? Got it. Okay. All the motion carries are outside. Good night. We have a motion. We have a motion. We have a motion. We have a motion. We have a motion. We have a motion. We have a motion. We have a motion. We have a motion. We have a motion. We have a motion. We have a motion. We have a motion. We have a motion. We have a motion. We have a motion. We have a motion. We have a motion. We have a motion. We have a motion. We have a motion. We have a motion. We have a motion. We have a motion. We have a motion. We have a motion. We have a motion. We have a motion. We have a motion. We have a motion. We have a motion. We have a motion. Thank you Lord. Laúlouac, three minutes and 21 is the 60s. Thank you Lord. Thank you Lord. We have a motion. Thank you Lord. 9 minutes and 21. We have a motion. Take a motion. Call the car a while back twenty five minutes for the listen we act on thatji . It's aотив closing and the turn. All human A we need to use lower in Boston. To my right I have the architect and to his right we also have the owner, part owner, the daughter of the owner of the two parcels and in some parcels. The tell us what's been proposed? Madam Chair, if you recall we were before you at the end of March we had a JPNC our second meeting. A lot of water under the bridge since then so you don't have to remind us. Of course. So we had our JPNC meeting on the 20th of March for which we had a vote of support. The letter issued by David Bairn, the chair of the zoning committee is in the package before you. The problem was we had slight modifications to the plans which we did not have time to represent to two ISD. Those were represented. Madam Chair to use specifically there is confirmation by way of this email issued by Lisa Hong, the executive ISD as well as Stephanie Hayes, the BPDA confirming that there are no violations. So the plans you have before you are confirmed acceptable by BPDA and ISD at this point. What we are proposing is a single family. The family owns a real parcel which has six feet of frontage only on Rocky Noctaris. So it is somewhat landmarked in a long extensive community process that began in January of last year. It was ultimately the election of the family to build a single family home that addressed Robus in Street as opposed to in a similar orientation to those parcels on Rocky Noctaris. In doing so, if you look at the rear of the package presented before you, we have effectively created building limitations that look like this by selecting to address Robus in Street as opposed to Rocky Noctaris. So we have made our setbacks significantly harder to manage and apply by in deference to our most closely affected butter. Let's just backtrack. So this looks, what is the total square footage of this property? 2181 square feet. Of the entire property, the land. The land is 5,730 square feet. And this is just the front, that is the entire lot including the carriage house. This is the 16R property, not both properties together. Okay, so 16R is 5,730 and what is the square footage of the front lot? 6,520 square feet. Okay, and it's dedicated right of way. Is that part of that rear property or is it being sliced off from the front lot? No, it's not designed to be a conveyance of real estate. In the end, the family will memorialize an easement to permit access across the land. So the land will be retained by the front portion 16 to provide access to the rear. So we will satisfy all the street parking requirements as per plans. We just need access by way of easement across the 16. Okay, and what is that 14R Rocky Noctaris? 14R Rocky Noctaris is presently a three story two family structure owned collectively by one individual. Okay, and the zoning in this district is? Two of four, sorry, three of 4,000. Also for your reference, if you look to the last page, we have a summary table of all of the immediately adjacent parcels summarizing respective square feet of those parcels. The respective floor building footprints as well as prospective FARs all coming from massly in records, the city's assessors website, etc. We have a point at point eight FAR allowable. Our proposed point or FAR is a point three eights were coming in at below half of what is otherwise permissible. We're also proposing a single family where otherwise three families are permissible by use. So just so I get it clear, so this is an individually plotted law for the rear of the building. Yes, we have two parcels. One is front facing Robus and the other one runs perpendicular to it to separate and distinct parcels. The owner of the property purchased them that way in the eighties they have remained separate on the D reference. They are two separately divided parcels. We have not subdivided land to make a separate parcel. Okay, so tell us about what is being proposed on that on that about the carriage house. So at present there is a small dilapidated garage that used to service 16 Robus in a current single family. We have been working two ways that structure to build starting in that orientation of the garage. Those facades a two car garage and any single family home. Okay, and tell us about you have a number of violations. Yes, miss. So just to reiterate if you look off of, if we had elected an orientation similar to what exists on Rocking of Terrace, we believe that our setbacks would be this configuration which would be easily met, given the width and length of the parcel. In trying to provide difference to the above, we have made it more difficult on ourselves by electing to have a address that faces Rocking of Terrace, which means that we have to abide by setbacks that look like this. So that causes some setbacks that otherwise wouldn't necessarily be present if we had a different orientation which we have elected in privacy to 14 Rocking of Terrace. To answer your question, Madam Chair, we have all street parking violations in the sense that we need to have access across 16 Robus in four other parts to off street parking spaces for the parcel. So we won't have requisite parking spaces. By code, you're not supposed to be building a home to the rear of another because we have elected to bill and have an address of 16 R as opposed to 16 Rocking of Rocking of Terrace. We have that violation. As indicated, we then have different setbacks here. So our setbacks have essentially been created by our election in order to provide privacy and difference to our closest to butter. So we have different neuroderear setback. So the plans are so. The plans are, I have a couple of questions. The front orientation of the proposed house is towards Rocking of. No, the orientation of the house, the front of the house is facing and addressing Robus in street. We have secured an address of 16 Robus in. That was my question. There are stairs in the rear of the house facing Rocking of, however. I live or block away. I know the property well. That was just an access to the basement. As there's a more clarity to we anticipate if we have gotten through this process, we'll have to engage a civil engineer. We'll have the land properly tested for existing putting so which is blood to be present. Blasting is cross prohibitive if the family encounters putting stone or some other form of slate or impasse. Their intent is to reduce the square footage of the basement to the point where it becomes economically not feasible to do so in which case they wouldn't even go great. Are all turn of the glass thing? The ultimate is to reduce the size not blast and ultimately eliminate the basement and go at great. How old is that going to grow? It's in pretty tough shape. It is structurally not stable. So it is not being utilized. Presently. Okay. The drunk driver. As one more quick note, if I may, we have had two meetings before the JPMC. Good. Is any other questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak and support at this proposal? New Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is Enrique Peppin from the mayor's office of the neighborhood services. We would like to go on a record in support of this project. We have gone through an efficient and long community process. And also there has been very strong support from the community and the neighborhood association. At this moment we have no further questions or concerns on the project. Thank you. My name is Marlon Southwick. You hear me? I live at 26th of Garni Street, which is up the street on the same wall, but not on roadside that is connected on the wall. I have attended most many of the neighborhood meetings. I have watched the family work to adjust their plans. I have seen them change many times. I support the project because I believe that they have found the best balance between what they need in order to live there and what the neighbors have requested around them. I have lived in my current house since 1977. I have attended scores of neighborhood meetings as more than 40 projects have been added since we moved to our house 40 years ago. I have watched all of this standard opposition and support for projects proceed. I have never seen a project go forward yet that has not had some opposition even at the very end. I am particularly supportive of this project because it allows a family who has lived in the neighborhood and raised their children there to find a way to keep another generation in the neighborhood. That is my support. Thank you. Good morning. My name is Alvin Shiggs. I live at number 28 on St. Street. My wife and I moved there 43 years ago and I am here to speak in support of the project 16 R Roaps in Street. I am very happy to speak in support. I have often opposed many of the development that happened in the neighborhood but this is one that I am very happy to get behind. I am very happy to get behind the development that I have seen. I have seen a couple of years ago that I have been in the neighborhood and raised their children there to find a way to keep another generation in the neighborhood. I have seen a couple of years ago that I have seen a couple of years ago that I have seen a couple of years ago that I have seen a couple of years ago that I have seen a couple of years ago that I have seen a couple of years ago that I have seen a couple of years ago that I have seen a couple of years ago that I have seen a couple of years ago that I have seen a couple of years ago that I have seen a couple of years ago that I have seen a couple of years ago that I have seen a couple of years ago that I have seen a couple of years ago that I have seen a couple of years ago that I have seen a couple of years ago that I have seen a couple of years ago that I have seen a couple of years ago that I have seen a couple of years ago that I have seen a couple of years ago that I have seen a couple of years ago that I have seen a couple of years ago that I have seen a couple of years ago that I have seen a couple of years ago that I have seen a couple He speaks toavored Her into기로 pregnant pregnant pregnant pregnant pregnant pregnant pregnant pregnant pregnant pregnant pregnant pregnant second and keep her boyfriend when it comes to her family bathroom with a months ago and fix the babies. But really she said that that they move our love it. They want to prove that they seek to build a single family growing.啦 has been cocoon our love it is a single family growing. They seek to build a single family growing. My aunt had been proved that the Yang Two does Aaron shell up and she agreed to be a single family woman. my aunt has been difficult to be very well and she agreed to be a single family woman she agreed to be a single family woman. They seek to build a single family woman why she has been very well and she agreed to be a single family woman. They seek to build a single family woman. they seek to build a single family doing a single family dwelling. So, I have been there very, very long time. It is heartening in a time when displacement is happening in the area where people who can bring diversity to the neighborhood willing to build and remain in Jamaica plain. And I'd like to submit my statement for the record. Thank you. Okay, ma'am. You're naming address for the record and give us new information, please. My name is Lee Glenn. I live at 14 Park Lane in Jamaica plain, which is just two streets from Seguerny Street. I've lived in my house for 52 years. The horses have lived there almost that long. They are very committed to the neighborhood. They're very good citizens. They've done their best to try to make a project which will allow their family to stay together and stay in the neighborhood. And they are nothing except good citizens who've tried really hard on this project. Thank you. Thank you. Now, who's here to speak in opposition? Good morning, Madam Chair. I'm members of the board. Hold on. After the representatives of elected officials, I'd like to hear from three people in opposition. And please make sure each one of you gives me new information. The rest of you, please come to the table here and have your name put on the record. Okay? Thank you. Go ahead. Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Will Poff, left from the City Council, Maddo, Malley's office. The council has heard from both sides on this issue. A lot of residents have reached out and he wants to appreciate that. He remains concerned at this time and hopes that if anything is approved, it will undergo robust design review process and continue working with the neighbors. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. I'm Marilyn Arsum. I live at 14 Rocky Nook Terrace. I'm a Director Butter. I've lived there for 30 years. I submitted a letter to the ZBA stating that I oppose granting variances for this project. I believe that I and my neighbors deserve it. Madam Chair, could you just bullet point for us? We have the letter and the record. I will. I will. But I need to read because I can't speak with that one. Okay. I did submit a letter. I believe that the project as proposed does not meet the requirements for granting the variances that they're requesting. It's a house in a backyard without any street frontage. This creates safety issues. The proposed house is of a design and scale that's not in keeping with the character of the neighborhood. It increases density traffic and the loss of green space that serves as a buffer between streets. Finally, despite being our being collegial neighbors for 30 years, Joey Horsley and her team have actually refused to work with the abutters to address our concerns in any real way. I hope that you will take them into consideration. Thank you. Hi. My name is Serena Nekel. I live at 12 Robison Street number two. And I'm in a direct butter. A lot goes behind my yard. That proposed structure is planned to be nine feet from my backyard. Property where my three children like to play. I have concerns about the construction process, about safety. I also find the scope and scale of the house too large for the area. I think that two car garage is excessive for the lot. And I think that they could have a very comfortable home with a 1900 square foot home and a single car garage. And we have tried to promote that idea and we were turned away time and again. My name is Claire Conley. I live at 17 Rocky Noctaris. I'm sorry. I'm here. Claire Conley 17 Rocky Noctaris. I'm about 40 feet from this parcel across the street from 14 Rocky Noctaris. I'm close to the project for the same reasons as the previous opponents. But also because in large part the butters should decide what works for them. I felt that the community, both the butters and all the neighbors, totally understood the desire of Joey Hortley and Sarah to have find a way for Sarah to live here as an owner and so forth. But there were numerous proposals put forward that were just rejected out of preference or just out of hand. There were 15 requests submitted that at the very next community meeting the attorney just sneered at the attendees and said, you know, we're not doing it. The requests were things like fencing, vegetation, barriers, drainage control, basic things. So there clearly has not been a desire to work with the butters. I think the butters have clearly shown a desire to work with the proponents. I would also make two points. One, this parcel was created when the entire area was subdivided in 1916. This parcel was specifically and apparently intentionally created to be a landmark parcel. It didn't receive six feet of frontage until 40 years later when they built rocking of terrorists and it just happened to curve into a piece at the end. And the last item is that there is a trend to this proposal being proposed at 18 Roves on Street. It was proposed four years ago the community was adamantly opposed to it. So we come back two or three times since then and the most recent that we understand is that they have submitted a new proposal to ISD for a single family house that would be the twin of this project right next door with 26 feet of frontage on rocking. They're going to call that part of that property is going to be called 21 rocking of terrorists. So we're extremely entire neighborhood and community is extremely concerned about this. Thank you. Can you please address the construction management plan because that was raised as an issue? Sure. Because we know that putting stone is very difficult. We know from other projects in the neighborhood that have caused their neighbors a great deal of angst over the years as they tried to proceed. So can you tell us about the construction management plan? Yes, Madam Chair. So please keep in mind and I do truly respect the opinion of the abutters. They have asked for a lot of detail that we will have to go ask my question first please. Yes. So when we have a formal engaged contract with a general contractor we will make sure we're happy to enter into an MOU with the abutters that there will be a management plan. There will be a proper person on site. The mother of my opponent to the right lives on site locally. She's retired. She's here often. There is somebody actively on property a lot of the time to be a representative of the project. So we are happy to be able to buy by a MOU to be rich as far as a construction plan. And please. The company's construction documents will be engaging a civil engineer and we'll have the sole tested to see what we can do there. But it's the intention that we're not going to be digging into rock. If it comes to that more than likely, it's just a level greater. And also as a quick additional note, we will try to provide access to the rear parts so which does not have necessary access or a full driveway off of Rock-E-Nook over 60 Robinson. So the intent is to have our construction vehicles etc. asking the parcel over 16 if they are in the parcel. Okay. May I have a motion, please? I want to make a motion to approve with continued BPD design review. And how about with that design review screening and buffering? I'll take that. And a management plan to be filed. Okay. Is there a second? Second. All those in favor? Any opposed? Motion carries. You're all set for those revisers. Following the next case. By the June 893-750-10 Ruthen Park. This is to combine existing two lots with one Ruthen Park and two Ruthen Park. Create one lot at 10 Ruthen Park and construct a new three-story three-unit residential building. There will be three Austria parking spaces. The violation is Article 50 Section 43. Austria parking design and maneuverability. Article 50 Section 29. A lot of areas insufficient. Article 50 Section 29. A lot of frontage is insufficient. Article 50 Section 29. The floor of the air ratio is excessive. Article 50 Section 29. The front yard is insufficient. Article 50 Section 29. The rear yard is insufficient. And Article 50 Section 29. Usable open space is insufficient. Name and address. Full directly. Attorney Daniel McDevitt, two grand out of the new Milpom. Excuse me. A minute. A man? Please give these ladies a sheet of paper so they can sign their names. Thank you. Thank you. Go ahead. Sorry. Tony Anderson. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board. Is anybody else on the table? We're talking to you. May I come in? Salman Chaudhary, 51 Hutchings Street. Unit 2, doorchester. Tony Anderson, 98 Harrishoff Street, doorchester. So tell us what's being proposed. This is an application to construct a three-family house on a 3,855 square foot lot in a zone that allows three-family houses on 4,000 square foot lots. So the math is for 3,000, so it's 3,000, 4,000. This is a 3,000, 4,000. So the first unit is, needs 4,000 square feet and each additional unit needs 2,000. Okay? So you would need 8,000 square feet for a three-family. That's correct. Okay? But we're reconstructing a smaller house than a house that existed if you look at the subdivision plan from 1894 and you see a much larger house on the site. So this is the location of a three-family house that was demolished some years ago and this is to replace with a smaller three-family house on this lot. So it also was a unique situation in that Roof and Park front comes down from Roof and Street if you look at the subdivision plan. And Roof and Park is 20 feet wide at the street at Roof and Street. So when the city calculates the lot frontage, they're looking for 45 feet on Roof and Street. And in fact, this lot has 59.82 feet on Roof and Park when you look at it. The FAR for the new house is it's a .08 zone and this comes out at 1.12 which is not a great increase over the code. So the backyard violation is that the front yard calls for 20 feet of front yard in this zone. This particular design has 14.5 feet of front yard but it aligns with the side of the home at 73 Roof and Street. So the new house does line up with when you look down Roof and Park from Roof and Street on the left hand side they would line up. The rear yard requirement under the code is 30 feet. This structure has 12 feet of rear yard, but it's equal to what was the rear yard of the prior structure. So when you look at the 1894 site plan and you look at our proposed plan, you can see that the house as proposed by my client, which is a three-family house, is smaller than what pre-existed. Of course, that was constructed prior to the adoption of the code. And the open space requirement is 650 and I believe the calculations for this as proposed is 640. There was a community process. I'm sorry. Tell us about the parking. Okay, so there are three parking spaces shown on the site plan with the drawings that were submitted to you this morning. And my client's own, if you look at the 1894 drawing, you can see that there's lots A, B and C. This is a lot C, which is the subject matter of this appeal. My client's also own lot B because they own lot B and lot C. They own the fee in the right way. So they own to the middle of the park. That's a private way. Oh, to the middle of a homestead park? Yes, they do. Okay. The water line is to the middle of it. So, yeah. So, how is the parking going to be accommodated? The parking would be as it shows on the drawing, three spaces across at the end of the homestead park. And what's the requirement? The required parking? Three spaces. So required is three because there's a stated violation of parking and maneuverability. The maneuverability is what the issue is. And I think that that would be resolved with design. Because we can't, when the design, when the application goes in, you can't assume in the process of plans examination that the person owns the land next door in that an easement can be granted for someone to back into and turn around and come out the other way. When they check off the violations, they merely look at that particular property and not a blooding piece of property. So, there will be an easement to share an easement between A and B. Between C and B. I'm sorry, between C and B and it will be registered. Yes. And what's the plan for Lot B? Lot B is a full unit building. It's an existing for a family and it's in the process of renovation. Okay. The relic-tired structure that needs some. And what if these, these look like two bedrooms, each about a thousand square feet? Will any of these units be handicapped accessible? The first floor certainly is if you look, it's directly at grade in and out. And the smallest unit is 1195 and the largest is 1324. So, the relic spacious two bedroom units, we have 55 signatures that I submitted today in favor. 22 of which. I don't want to go there. I just need to get details on the building. Is there a roof deck for both? No. There is no roof deck. No, there was a community process on sidewalk meeting. The original drawings did have one. I think it does in people that attended the meeting on site and the general consensus was they did not want to have one and it's since been removed. Okay, hold on. How are the clients of the relic? Drawings are out. Any additional questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak and support at this proposal? Good afternoon Madam Chair and members of the board. My name is Jessica Thomas with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services and we'd like to go on record to support contingent upon BPD air review. The Neighborhood Association did reach out with concerns about trash removal and also implementing design review. However, we do have 55 letters of support. We also, there was also a butters that were there that went support of the project. Thank you. Mr. Thomas, the question of the easement has it been any understanding on that? Yeah, that was some of that was the concerns that came up during the meeting. So which was why we would like to see design review. Some of the neighborhood groups did have concerns about that. Is anybody here to speak in opposition? Hi, I'm just Connie Ford. I'm with the Garrison's Florida Neighborhood Association. I know I'm having hard time hearing today so can you please speak up? Sure. Because I'm just tapes for the most part. So my name is Connie Forbes. I'm with the Garrison's Florida Neighborhood Association and we had one meeting where the proponent did appear but the questions that were asked were not answered and they had agreed to come back and present again to our body of membership and on two occasions they did not show up. I was at the butters meeting which occurred at Pleasant Hill Baptist Church which was an indoor meeting and there were questions that came up from other butters as well. We're trying to get those answers as like pulling teeth and so we did have a lot of questions especially the question about the easement because there are two properties in front. This is a property in someone's backyard. I know if you saw the Bay State banner article that just came out. It's behind two people's homes and so we had questions about what the easement agreement would have been. We had questions about ownership because the paperwork on files does not show the ownership as being the person representing themselves here although they did represent themselves at the butters meeting as the owners. The legal documents stating ownership does not reflect the owner here as being the owner that was a major question that was not answered. It is a private way again the easement was a question and we're all about policy procedure and equity and handling things. We have a question about this property. First of all is it one way and one way out behind someone's home and if there's any emergency or anything happening there's a safety issue. We asked about it because what if a fire truck and what if any evidence had to access that property. Roof and street itself the main street that this is off of has a huge parking issue as it is. And so you're creating a problem for the safety of the people who are going to be residing there. In addition to that there's a lot of things that are happening that we don't have anxious to that we could not in our pursuit of getting those answers answered. This trash management is a big issue for us because if there's no trash service coming into the street that means trash being put in front of someone else's home in front of in just in terms of recent weather in Boston we've had a lot of intense winds blowing barrels down the street and if you're dumping your barrel in front of someone else's home who's cleaning up that mess if your barrel gets knocked over and again basic courtesy to the community. If you're about the character around the neighborhood is it two and three families or four families? It's mostly two and three families historically and that's one of the older you know that's two different from the area so we have some brick buildings as well. Okay thank you. Thank you. Yeah those are the major points but there are other points but again ownership was a question because if you don't own the property and you pay for a person saying you own it that's a major consideration we want it to address as well and that was a letter from President Alisa of the organization stating that we could not find the owners presented here as being the actual property owners. Thank you. So we've had a couple of issues. We have clarification of ownership and the easement and it seems today the theme is trash and trash containment. I was how to tell us first about the easement and the ownership and second about maintenance. So the title to the property is held in a LLC. It's very common to acquire property in an LLC to limit your liability. Who is what's the name of the LLC? So it's called the ATA development. An ATA development could have anyone as a manager but the member is Mr. Child. And it's on record that that that ATA has ownership of lot B and C. I actually have the deeds with me if it's helpful. Again, tell us about operations. How is that trash going to be handled? So this is going to be homeowners that's living there and there will be a management. Absolutely. Okay. Okay. And there will be a management company also most likely hired by the homeowners that's going to manage the property because it will become a minimum. So I literally live one block away from this property. We all take care of our own trash and I'm assuming that the homeowners that's going to live there also is going to be concerned and take care of their own trash like everybody, every other homeowner. Thank you. Okay. Given this information, may I have a motion? I want you to prove that BPA is under new. Okay. And is there a second? Second. No, no. Is there a second? Second, yes there is. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries with that. Thank you. Thank you. Case calling B.O.A.907-324-1-7. We'll cut road. They claim to build a three story townhouse combined two lots of parking existing building to be raised. Violated at Article 65, Section 41. One, most parking loaded requirements, 65-41.4 parking location. Article 65, Section 8. Townhouse, four units to forbid. Article 65, Section 9, a lot of frontages is insufficient. Article 65, Section 9, the fluidier ratio is excessive. Article 65, Section 9, the building height is excessive in stories. Article 65, Section 9, the front yard is insufficient. Article 65, Section 9, side yard is insufficient. Article 65, Section 9, the ray yard is insufficient. Name and address. Will the record please? So I have to know, most generally, the board is pretty good. Small business address, two lots of little information maps. But these two days, it's been a little bit theatrical for our product. Today, we are here seeking relief to combine the blocks in the record four townhouse units with eight parking spots. We are here prior to today's area. We had ten parking spots, but that was the reason for the referral absence. The design had questioned regarding the parking plan that was presented. Since that, we have met with the former First Department, who submitted a new parking plan to where they were supportive of it. We also identified Mr. Bob D'Nico and the transportation department as well. Zooming sub-district here is 3,6,000. It's about 8,500 square feet. This is a lot of size and the violation of the arrest follows. The parking location was one of the violations. We have the parking lot of separate logs, which is just above the real estate. The log frontage, the requirement is 50 square feet. We have 30 feet. The FAR was aired as .4. We are proposing it, FAR.2. The building height of the garage is about the stories. The requirement is 2.5. We are proposing 3. The front yard setback is 15 feet. We are proposing 10. Side yard is 10 feet. We are proposing 6. The rear yard is 30 and we are proposing 7. Now, Chair, with regard to this project, we have had a lengthy community process. We have had at least three of what is needed. We have had a meeting with my own association on at least three of the locations. We have supported the director of the buttons, Mr. Johnson and Mr. Stamina Gonzalez, who are here at the last meeting and spoke of support of the project. Unfortunately, we could not be here today. On the parking, it's . . . Did I remember correctly that before all the spaces were going to back out right into the street? That's correct. So now you are proposing a cobb cut, a limited cobb cut with a tandem parking spaces. That's correct. Yes? That's correct. There is going to be a retaining wall. Access will be through a proposed stairwell to the building. That's correct. Are you proposing any screening and buffering along a mountainous towers? Yes. We will be doing a screen. The units have gone through everything. There is no roof decks on this. No roof decks. Any living space in the basement? No. How are the plas just all like? The drawings here, the big drawings, I will show you the ten spaces. This thing shows the egg space in the bottom line. This is where I will be standing. You have a 24 foot cobb cut. I mean, how are people going to get it out? You have four spots. How many people in one and three and six and eight get out? There are four units. Each unit can have two of those spaces. Within each unit, they can coordinate that with a new home family. It's not like a unit will be parking in front of another unit. We are talking about a new home family argument. And as a good state, we did run this by a public works department who talked about the 25 foot cobb cut. We also have a conversation. Is it okay to meet you? You have seen this? Okay. I mean, it's certainly better than the previous whole third. Okay. Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? No. Good afternoon, Madam Chairman, members of the board. Christine Rene, Mayor's office of the neighborhood services. I'd like to go on record and support. They have gone to the neighborhood association several times as well, meeting with the butters and they have the support. Thank you. I'm Chairman of the board. Dustin Gardner, behalf of City Council President Andreate Campbell's office. We'd also like to go on record and support. Thank you. Is anybody here to speak in opposition? May I have a motion, please? Or the motion to appeal with continued BPDDA design review? Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Just a new statement to our public screen and brought right along the front. Thank you. The last case for 1130. We're calling VOA 893-819-761 Washington Street. This is directly new three family house on the vacant lot. The area is in the area of the city. The area is in the area of the city. The area is in the area of the city. The area is in the area of the city. The area is in the area of the city. The area is in the area of the city. The area is in the area of the city. The area is in the area of the city. The area is in the area of the city. The area is in the area of the city. The area is in the area of the city. The area is in the area of the city. The area is in the area of the city. Article 65, section 9, the building height is excessive to the feet. Article 65, section 9, the front yard is insufficient. Article 65, section 9, the side yard is insufficient. Article 65, section 9, the rear yard is insufficient. Name an address for the record please. The correct dialog will be accused myself with this. Thank you. Good afternoon. I'm chairman of the board of the New York Small. This is just a 15-month-old world-renowned greenhouse. Quickly today as we set off the two. The opposite is the private and the smart members of the owner of the property. Today we're here seeking leave to record three family clothing on the vacant lot. The lot has been vacant for some time and in my research at the ISD on the building jacket there was not a three-family arm. The property years ago and we've just heard it by the fire. The zoning subject is a three-out five thousand. We have approximately 25 hundred square feet for the lot size. The lot width and zoning violations are as follows. The lot width is 50 feet. We have 36 and a half. FAR requirement is .5. We are proposing 1.9. The height is at 35 feet. Two and a half stories. We're at 34 feet but we have three stories. The usual open space is 75 feet per dwelling unit. We're proposing 288 square feet per dwelling unit. Front yard. We're using a model setback as there are other three families. They're facing the property to the right of it. There are two three families to the right. Side yard setback. Requirement is 10. We have three and a half feet. We are a 30 and we are proposing three feet in the rear. With regards to the community process, Madam Chair, we have met with. Hold on. Parking what's required and what are you proposing? There are a couple of requirements. Three spaces. We are proposing not to go off to the parking lot. No, no. Okay. And tell us about the general character of the neighborhood. Is that one, two or three? On Washington Street, there are primarily three's with a couple of two's fixed in. Okay. How are the plans for the public? Project. Any questions for the board? Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. Whitney Celeste and with the mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. After two letters meetings for this project. And a meeting with the CIA Community Improvement Association. We support this project. Thank you. Thank you. Is anybody here to speak in opposition? May I have a motion please? Motion to approve the PDL design briefing. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Thank you, Madam Chair. Any opposed? Motion carries. What happened to that? Meeting is now adjourned.