 This meeting is being recorded. Good evening. The City of Boston zoning board of appeals subcommittee for March 17th is now 2020 is now in session. Happy St. Patrick's Day. This hearing is being conducted in accordance with the applicable provisions of the open meeting law, including the updated provisions. Annacted by the legislature last year. The new law allows the board to continue its practice of holding virtual hearings until July 15th 2022. This hearing of the board is being held remotely via the web ex, sorry, via, via those Zoom webinar event platform. This hearing is also being live streamed. In order to ensure this hearing of the board is open to the public, members of the public may access this hearing through telephone and video conferencing. The information for connecting to this hearing is listed on today's hearing agenda, which is posted on the public notices page of the city's website Boston dot go. Members of the public will enter the virtual hearing as attendees, which means you will not see yourself on the screen and you will be muted throughout unless administratively unmuted when asked to comment board members applicants and their attorneys or representatives will participate in the hearing is panelists and they will appear alongside the presentation materials when speaking. panelists are strongly encouraged to keep video on while presenting to the board. As with our in person meetings comments and support will be followed by comments and opposition. The order of comments is as follows, elected officials representatives of elected officials and members of the public. The chair may limit the number of people called upon to offer comment and the time for commenting as time constraints require. For that reason, the board prefers to hear from members of the public who are most impacted by a project that is those individuals will live closest to the project project. If you wish to comment on an appeal, please click click the raise hand icon. Along the bottom of your screen in the zoom webinar, an air platform. Click it again and your hand should go down when the host sees your hand, you will receive a request to unmute yourself select yes and you should be able to talk. If you are connected to the hearing by telephone, please press star nine to raise and lower your hand. You must press star six to unmute yourself after you receive the request from the host again star nine to raise and lower your hand and star six to unmute. Those called upon to comment will be asked to state their name and address first and then can provide the comments. In the interest of time and to ensure that you have enough time to do so, please raise your hand as soon as Mr. Fortune reads the address into the record. Do not raise your hand before the relevant addresses called or the meeting host will not know to call on you at the appropriate time. Let me just take a quick roll call Mr. Fortune. Good evening Madam Chef. Good evening Mr. Robinson. Good evening. Good evening. So Mr. Fortune it's all yours. Thank you Madam Chef. The first order of business is the deferrals of withdrawals for the five o'clock cases. We have the address first place. Madam Chair I don't know if Mr. Polgini's on but the Cherokee street is being deferred to next month. So I'm going to call it in and then. Can you be away? Yes, my name is. My name is Amy Kelly. I'm speaking on behalf of John Polgini this evening in regards to case BOA. I'm going to call it in a minute please. Yeah, let me call it in for the record please. For the record call to BOA 1289454 for Cherokee street name and address for the record please. Amy Kelly and it's for Cherokee street. Um, maybe some. So fortune may have a motion. Motion for deferral. I'll second. I too am in support the date. It will be April 14th at 5 p.m. Thank you very much. You're welcome. Are there any add deferrals or withdrawals for five o'clock? Hearing none I'll call the first case calling BOA 1241879615 East third street. This is an existing two family building with new egress stairs and a rear of the building the violation. Article 68 section eight side. Is insufficient and article 68 section eight to rear yard is insufficient. Name and address for the record please. Our petitions on for that one second. I'm going to go ahead. Hi Patricia. Can you hear us? Yes, can you hear me? Can you say to me, I'm an address for the record please? Yes, my name is Patricia Fisher. I am an architect representing the building owner. I'm a 35 Fisher road and Wemoth Massachusetts. Okay, Miss Fisher, please tell us what's being proposed. I'm a student. I'm a student. I'm a student. I'm a student. My client. Mr. Muhammad, Mayor. Purchased this two family home. In self Austin. He has done a beautiful job renovating. I'm going to go ahead please. All right, something happened somebody promoted the journalist and then I got me ready. All right, so my client has purchased and beautifully renovated this two family home. The building is an existing non conforming building on the site. It's too close to the site. What lines existing? Okay, so tell us about the stairs. Is this is this related to a deck or is it purely an egress set of stairs for health safety? I can't hear Miss Fisher is that? Yes, Miss Thomas. Could Miss Ambassador. Can you help on this? Are Miss Fisher can you increase your volume? It's up at 100% now. I'll just raise my. That's a constant problem. I have the staircase at the rear of the building is the three cold. The building code required second means of egress. There is also a platform there that's slightly larger than needed. A poor means of egress. And it's to give the homeowner the kind of. A place to set up a chair on the outside to get a little bit of fresh here. I mentioned then of that landing. Okay, could you go back? I don't have control of the screen here. Yes, just tell us. Okay, so we're going to have a quick look at the screen. Okay, so we're going to have a quick look at the screen. All right, stop right there. Okay, the landing is 12 by eight. Of that. 4 by 8 is required to make the staircase work. So there is probably an additional 4 by 4. Square feet. I'm sorry, 4 by 8 square feet there. Then above what is required by code. Okay. So I think that's a good idea. I think that's a good idea. I know this is not before us, but we do see occupancy in the basement. Is that a basement or is it a walk out? That's a walk out. It was previously occupied with bedrooms. You know, I get it, but you know, in some cases it may have been done illegally. And if we see something, we cannot kind of look the other way. Oh, correct. The, the floor to ceiling height and the floor to still height in those in those bedrooms. Oh, the floor to ceiling. Yeah, the floor to ceiling is currently at eight feet. The window cells in two of the bedrooms are to code. The front bedroom will have a egress well cut into the side of the lot. And the window sill lowered to make that meet the code, which is a window sill at 43 inches above the finished floor. Window well is nine square feet. Okay. Okay. How are the plans? Mr Robinson. Plans are good. No question. I agree. The lower level. It is a full walk out and the one bedroom will. I think it's fine. It's right at the grade points. I think it's fine. I think it's fine. I think it's fine. Any issue with that per se. One question I did have was. It's a fairly tight rear yard condition. It. There's no site plan. Can you just tell me the dimension between the rear of the house and the adjacent house that kind of comes back behind. By my calculations, it's like 18 feet. 17 feet. So there's still about 10 feet between you and the other adjacent building. Is that can you just confirm that? I have a site plan. Get here. You have it. Oh, I have the site plan. Okay. It's not in the package that I have. So I didn't. I couldn't tell those dimensions. Okay. Do you want me to bring it up on the screen? No, you can just. I'm going to ask you a question. Can you just tell me the approximate dimension between the rear and the adjacent butting house? Eight feet. Clear of your deck. Clear of the proposed deck. Yes. Yes. Eight feet clear of the proposed deck. Got it. All right. No other questions. Thank you. Is anybody here to speak. Either in support or in opposition of this proposal. Madam chair members of the board. I'm sure we have two members of the board. I think that's one of the most important things to do with the mayor's office neighborhood services. This time the mayor's office would like to defer judgments. The board. Thank you. Madam chair, we do secretary here. We do have two letters of support. Thank you. May I have a motion, please? I'll make a motion to approve. I'll second that motion. I too am in support. I'm going to move on. I'm going to move on. I'm going to move on. I'm going to move on. Call me. Call me. X. Call me. I had a. I had a question on that existing one. I had my hand raised. Who is this? This is a neighbor. The neighbor that lives directly behind. Okay. So we did ask about the. The deck. That is the one we did. The one we did ask about the. That was a friend of mine on the racket. So the landing is eight by four. It's four by eight for the stairs. Is. Is the necessary for. You know, we're going to need an easement for on that. You dress necessary. That infringes upon. You know, family if people are on those decks often. It's pretty close to my house, right? So we have made a motion that's caring to approve because the proposed little deck is doesn't give much room for much, quote, hang out. So it has been approved. OK? So may I have Mr. Fortune, the next case? Yep. Thank you, Madam Chair. Call me your next case. Calling B-O-A-1-2-7-7-6-9641 Cornwall Street. This is a constructed new roofed armor to extend living space to the attic and exist in two family dwelling. The violation is Article 55, Section 9. The floor day ratio is excessive. Article 55, Section 9, the front yard is insufficient. Article 55, Section 9. The side yard is insufficient. And Article 55, Section 9, the rear yard is insufficient. Name an address for the record, please. Yes, my name is Francisco Skelton. And I am the owner of a 41 Cornwall Street in Jamaica Blaine. Do you live there? I used to. No, no. I do live there, but I mean, I cannot live there now. I see, will you be intending to move back when it's done? Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes. OK, so then tell us what you're proposing to do. OK, well, last year on July 6, my house was hit by lightning and the roof was damaged. So the roof and the house has to be repaired. I just want to extend the farmers of the house in the attic. So I have more living space in the two bedrooms. I am not raising the elevation. I am only hoping to extend the dormers that exist. And the reason why I want to extend the dormers is because I want my bedroom to be bigger. And I want my son and his family to have one space in the other bedroom when they come to visit me. And also, I have had the abyssal meetings with the other PSN. Sir, so hold on. So in that dormer, you will have two bedrooms, right? I'm not. Raynor. Raynor, I have two bedrooms. So if I can be able to extend the dormers, I will be able to have more space. OK, two larger bedrooms. OK. OK. I'll just not do it. OK, hold on. Is anybody here to speak either in sub? Oh, how are the clients, Mr. Robinson? Yes, we're good. No questions. Very straightforward. And I think it's consistent with the neighborhood in terms of what he's proposing. No questions. OK, is anybody here to speak either in support or offer an opposition to this proposal? Hi, yes. Good evening, Madam Chair, members of the board. This is Tiffany Caledo from the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. There was no butters meeting facilitated for this applicant. They received committee support from the Sony neighborhood association, sorry, the Sony neighborhood association, as well as the Jamaica Plains Zoning subcommittee. And at this time, the mayor's office would like to go on record and defer to the board's judgment. Thank you very much. Thank you. Madam Chair, do you have a raise hand, Charles Hills? Are you here to give testimony on this proposal? Yes. I'm here to speak. OK, can you please name an address for the record, please? My name is Charles Hills. And I'm resident at nine Haverford Street in Jamaica Plains. OK, go ahead. And I'm here to speak in support of Mr. Skeleton's project. I attended all of the neighborhood meetings that Mr. Skeleton had with the Brookside Neighborhood Association, the Eglson Square Neighborhood Association, and the Zoning Committee of the Jamaica Plains Neighborhood Council, as well. I've known Mr. Skeleton and his family for 50 years. He grew up across the street for me and his family home at 12 Haverford Street. Thank you, Mr. Skeleton. This is a lot of work for our house struck by like name hell. Yeah. OK, so anybody else in support or in opposition of this proposal? Madam Chair, Secretary, here we do have five letters of support. Excellent. Miss Ambassador, are we all set? Yes, we are. May I have a motion, please? I'll make a motion to approve. I think you can approve with just straight up approval. I know there's very straightforward. So no question. OK. I'll second that motion. I too am in support. So you're all set, Mr. Skeleton. Good luck. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Good luck. Call in the next case. Call in P.O.A. 12814996. Fort Fort North Fort North Park Street. This is a gut interior of a home in reinforced existing structure. Raise the second floor to meet code and add dormers. The violation is Article 65, Section 9, in suspicion side, you had setback, and Article 65, Section 9, the number of a lot of stories has been exceeded, naming address for the record, please. Alexander Bender, 6th Port North Park Street. So Mr. Bender, tell us what you're proposing to do. So the footprint of the house is going to stay the same. It's going to be pretty much a gut down to the studs. New layout on the first floor. Second floor remains pretty much the same other than the staircase moving to come up to code and raising the ceiling to come up to code. And then the issue came in with adding dormers to the roof. To actually be able to use that as with. Let me ask you a couple of questions. Yes, ma'am. Is this a one family or a two family? Single family and it's going to be owner occupied. Single family owner occupied. You're going to be the the occupant. Yes. OK. And tell us about the the height with the proposed dormer. So the the peak of the roof is only going to come up three feet, which is still within code. It's going to come up three stories. No, I'm sorry. It's currently a two and a half story. So it's going to be just adding dormers to that half of story. I see. OK. How are the plans, Mr Robinson? Plans are fine. I think that I understand the proposal. I think that in general, I'm OK with it. I think the the long dormers and the addition of the high. It's proportionally a little bit sort of different, I think. So I think maybe BPA review on this. If it's approved, just to make sure that the proportions work for the house. But no questions on the actual scope of the expansion. Thank you. Is anybody here to speak and support our opposition of this proposal? It's good evening. Madam Chair, members of the board, George Wynn with the Mayor's Office and Neighborhood Services. Our office was in a letters meeting on January 26th of this year, where neighbors voice support for the project. The Port Norfolk Civic Association also wrote a letter support. At this time, our office would like to defer judgment to the board. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, Secretary, we have that letter from Port Norfolk. OK. Thank you. I'm glad that I have no raised hands. Thank you, Mr. Bender. I just have a question. You're not in a flood zone. Are you? No. Port Norfolk Street is not a flood zone. No. OK. OK. Given that information, may I have a motion, please? I'll make a motion to approve with the EPA designer of you related to the dormer and additional height of the roof. OK. I'll second that motion. I too am in support. So you're all set with that proviso. Good luck. Thank you very much. Calling an ex-case, calling VOA 1277213 43 PS Street. This is a change of arc from a one family to a two family with a new addition. The violation is Article 69, Section 9, the fluid area issue is excessive. Article 69, Section 9, the bill has excessive in stories. Article 69, Section 9, the usable open space is insufficient. Article 69, Section 9, the side yard is insufficient. And Article 69, Section 9, the ray yard is insufficient. Name and address for the record, please. Afternoon, Madam Chair and subcommittee. My name is Joleen Collins. I'm a licensed contractor at Allen's construction and remodeling, representing the owners of the property at 43 PS Street. Bishop Dr. Glenn Prosper as well as Pastor Pauline Prosper. Our proposal is to build a second unit onto the rear of the single family house. This second unit is going to be 59 by 19 square feet with a 24 by 20 of 20 foot attached garage that will be attached to the unit. We have a couple of violations. Hold on for a minute, please. Yes. This is the plan that's up on the screen is what it's proposed to be, right? Yes, this is the proposal. Okay. And so I think we have a few questions with what we're interested in is what is the rear yard that's asked by the zoning and what is the rear yard that is proposed? So it looks like and if you reference a dash zero on the contractor plans, it shows that the rear setback is going to excuse me, the rear yard minimum depth should be 40 feet, but we currently have 19.6 feet in the rear. I will make mention that in the rear of the building, there is a commercial space. So there's no actual residential area behind the building. Okay. And then talk about the side yard, what's required and what's being proposed. So the side yard requirements are 10 feet on either side. We are proposing three feet one inch on one side of the building and then three feet six and six inches on the right side of the building. Okay. I just have to tell you off the bat. Yes. Just looking at this, it is, it does look rather big and solid and we are not used to seeing designs like this because you know, one of our goals as a board is to make sure that light and air and other kinds of impacts are not felt by the neighbors because we do understand that there might be a commercial structure on the rear today, but the possibility is, or there is the possibility in the future that it may go to a residential use. Okay. So I will put that out there just so that you kind of understand our thinking. Okay. Understood. I will say that the owners of this property, Bishop Glen Prosper, as well as Pastor Pauline Prosper have been in the neighborhood and living in that state, that specific house for the last 30 years. They now are grandparents, oh, they're parents and now grandparents and are looking to stay and continue in this space and and and and and and sit and have that land in the back to be accessible for their family and their growing family. They did speak with the murderers as everybody, you know, we appreciate what a butters have to say and everybody has to say, but it is as it is advisory to the board. So has have the homeowners looked at other options to accommodate that second unit? Because it and what's the zoning district here? So the zoning zoning district on the street, there's single families, but there are also many multi family units. Madam Chair, to 2,000, it's a 2,000, okay. And the thing is that the BPD, who also advise us as the board of a bill as the planning agency for the city, they're recommending denial without prejudice. So and that and and their recommendation is based on the proposal covering a lot of the lot and insufficient setback, insufficient open space. And so, you know, so there is, you know, a planning perspective that's brought into this through their recommendation. So I'm going to ask you if you would prefer to have a decision made by the sport, or would you prefer a deferral and come back with a revised plan? So I would say that we can do a deferral at this point and come up with a revised plan if that is something that that makes sense. But I would have to speak with the owners in order for them to to to move forward. At this at this point, I think that would be the best options that we can come together and make the final decision on the feasibility. Okay. So do you want to have a couple of minutes to speak with them offline? Or would you like us to make a decision now? Yes. If we can just have a couple of minutes to speak with them offline and then we can, I will be able to contact them and then we can speak further. Okay. So at the end of this meeting. Okay. So so whatever we're going to do is proceed with the next projects. Please let Miss Ambassador know sorry Miss Ambassador know when you're ready to come back on. Okay. Okay. Thank you so much. No worries. Hey, Madam Chair. We'll go to the next case calling B O A 129044320 orchard street. This is the build a dorma created new master bedroom the violations article 55 section nine, inspiration side judge set back. Amen. Address to the record please. Right. My name is Justin Rice at 20 orchard street and Jamaica plain. My wife and I live in a single family home here at 20 orchard street with our three young children. We are seeking a modest four and a half foot side yard set back relief for a dormer for I just have to correct you. It's for a primary bathroom not for a bedroom. Yeah. That will allow us to most efficiently use our space and bring our home up to modern standards. Our home is an existing non conforming building. Okay. Hold on sir. So just so that we are clear that the only space in the only use for that space in the attic is going to be a bathroom. Correct. No bedroom, but the plans before us show a bedroom. That bedroom's existing. Madam Chair secretary here I wasn't ever saying that it does say master. Bathroom. Oh, I'm sorry. I too read it as master bedroom. Okay. I'm so used to seeing master usually it's a master. Yes, it's a master. Link to that. So okay. Okay. Okay. So. The attic. Tell us the floor to ceiling height. Sorry. My designer is going to get into the into the details for me. Okay. If I may just have a quick moment, I won't take too much time. Our homes and existing. The dormers. The dormers designed for the Southwest corner because plumbing for the bathroom was brought up to the third floor. By the previous owner, the previous owner also installed an adjacent HVAC system that makes it difficult and expensive to relocate the dormer to another space. The four and a half feet that we are seeking through the zoning variance has minimal to no impact to our neighbors. Our city councilor and state representative have submitted letters of support. Hold on, Mr. Rice. We'll get all that information from the mayor's office of neighborhood services. Okay. So how are the plans, Mr. Robinson? I think the plans are good. I have reviewed everything. They're included with their work shadow studies. I think this is a fairly straightforward proposal. And fairly de minimis in terms of the, the, the ask of the square footage. But I think. No, no questions in terms of the proposal. For a little street like orchard, this raised a lot of. Yeah. So, I think that's a very, very important. I think that's a very important, very important for a tenant. Is anybody here to speak either? May I address that please? No, no, no, no, it's okay. May I. Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition of this proposal? Madam chair secretary, here we do have letters of support, but we do have letters of opposition. And so, we have a letter of support, but we have a letter of support. I think it's a very important for a tenant to speak either in support or in opposition of the. But may I let you know that one? Hold on, hold on, please. Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition? Mr. Ambassador? Yes, I do have one raised hand here. Peter. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you Madam Secretary and chair. I'll be very brief due to the time constraints here. There are five direct abudders to this property. There are four. Let us position to this proposed project. And I have sent. I believe they have all the. I have sent. I will go hold on. So I need your name and and your address. And a very specific reason why you're opposing this proposal. Thank you chair. Peter Elmitz, 21 print street. I am a direct. A butter. I live right behind 20 Watches Street. I've been here a resident for 54 years. And it's going to it's looming. The proposed project is going to be looming over. The site that I have from my house. There are five direct abudders. To this property. There are four letters of opposition, which your office, I believe, has. And that's a very specific reason. I think it's a very specific reason why you have to. It's a very specific reason. And that's a very specific reason why you have to. There are four out of the five abudders are opposed to this project. And also the, at the December 6th, Jamaica, pond, association, board meeting. It was voted, the board voted in opposition to oppose this project. Okay. Just couple. Yes. Okay. All right. A couple more things that were stated at the JPMC that they. Miss Rice had mentioned there's only one bathroom in the house. They actually there are two full bathrooms and a half. So two and a half. Bathrooms already exists there. And also the application indicated that there is no living space down in the basement. Where there is a family room. And the government. The measurements, I don't know if you're in this measurement, you have that in the documentation. So there were some incorrect information provided to the community. Thank you. Is anybody here from the mayor's office of neighborhood services? Danielle is on. Is this for. Yes, I can hear you all. Is this for 43 peer street? What are your. Okay, this is this is not for me. Jessica, I raised my hand by accident. Yes, sorry. I try to. Danielle, while you hear about peace, they're they're making a decision whether to defer or have us go through our process. I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. Yeah, I heard that. Thank you, Madam Chair. Okay. Miss Miss Ambassador, are there any other raised hands? I'm no man. I have no additional these hands. Thank you. Okay. This looks like a de minima's project. May I have a motion, please? I'll make a motion to approve. With the PDA designer view. Just to make sure that they understand what the constraints of the dorm are. I'm going to second that motion. I too am in support. So you're a set with those with that supervisor. Now, she would you like to go back to P.S. tree to do it should I go to Danville? Let's go on because I don't think we've heard back. Okay. You're ready. All right, calling an X case calling B.O.A. 1277 380 11 Danville Street. This is to construct a one story addition to the rear of an existing single family detached dwelling. The addition included a finished basement and a family room on the first floor. Violation is article 56 section 8. The floor to your ratio is excessive. Article 56 section 8. The side yard is insufficient. Name and address full record, please. 82 spring street. And not we miss your name. And not be a knack to go. And that's from our office. It's Derek Rubenoff from Derek Rubenoff architect and 82 spring street as well. And my colleague and not. Not peknog to go. We'll take the lead here present. So this and you're here for 11 Danville, right? That's correct. Okay, let's go ahead. Hi, good evening. So we are proposing a rare addition to the single family in the West Roxbury. We are showing that the addition have a site of said back violation on the north side. Actually, it is called up a little bit. Yep. Can you say that? So can you tell us the dimension of that addition, please? Yes, actually, if you can scroll down. And then you can see the other one should be looking at. Actually, I'm sorry. Let me just go. She. This looks good. One. Can you please blow it up so we can see it better. Perfect. Okay. So it's meeting the prop the building line. And the is it a five foot. What is the dimension of that addition again? The dimension of the addition is about 20. The length is 20, 60, then the depth toward the rare yard is about 12 foot six. Okay. And what's your, you see, you're just, you're extending a sentry extending that side yard violation. So we're going to be able to see the area. So we're going to be able to see the area. Right. Yes. So we are five feet away from the property line. So we're okay with building code. But what is the zoning required? 10 feet. Yeah. Okay. And it's this diagnosis less than that. It's for three. And. The basic use of that will be for a family room. It's a remain the single family. It's a rare addition. And it's a rare. And did I. Did you say something about occupancy in the basement? No. Okay. How are the plans, Mr Robinson? Plans are fine. And I think it's fairly straightforward. The rear setback is in. It's just an extension of the side yard. No, no questions. It's pretty straightforward. Okay. Is anybody here to speak either in support or an opposition of this proposal? Yes. I'm. Good evening, Madam Chair and members of the board. Jake Lacey from the Office of Neighborhood Services. A community meeting was held with the West Roxbury Neighborhood Council on the 25th of January of this year, where the council voted 70 in support of the project. We have not received any letters of opposition. And at this time, we defer to the board. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I have no additional way of paying at the moment. Madam Chair. Madam Chair, secretary here. We do have a few letters of support. We have a motion. Please. I'll make a motion to. I'll second that motion. I do. I'm in support. So you're all set. Good luck. Thank you. Madam Chair, looks like. Pearce is ready. Do you want me to call him back? Yes. Why don't we? I'm going to call him back. I'm going to call him back. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Please give me one three, 43, 43, 43, 43, 43, 43, 43, 43, 43. and redesign a new plan that is better accommodating to the concerns of the BPDA as well as the Board of Appeal office. But I did go ahead. I did want to ask if you have and can provide me with a recap on what the BPDA's concerns are so that we can consult with the owners and the architect on a scale back or redesign of the property. The property of 43. So first of all, so, um, Tom, make sure Ms Collins gets the copy of the BPDA recommendation that would be helpful. Okay. Okay. And so let's go ahead and get a motion on the table here. Madam chair, Secretary, would you want to see this in the full board? Um, or would you rather see this at a subcommittee meeting? And if so, we can do, we can do a subcommittee in April, but maybe it might be beneficial in May. May would be better. I think I'm reading with you. Okay. So I'll make a motion for the furrow. I second that motion. I too am in support and the date. And there will be 519 at 5pm May, May 19th at 5pm. Thank you. Thank you. Madam chair and subcommittee. We appreciate your time. Thank you. Call them in the next case calling POA 1280083515 Gertrude Road. This is a renovation and addition of unit two and existing two family condominium building. The scope includes a slightly revised layout on the second and in the addition of a shed dormant in the attic floor to the right side of the house to contain a master suite. There's no change to the building footprint or height, the violation, Article 9, Section 1, extension of a nonconforming use, and Article 56 Section 8, excessive FAR. The admin address for the record, please. And we're going to go for 15 Gertrude, the spring state. And and uh, Derek Rubinoff here, uh, and that back noctagos colleague also from 82 spring street, dark Rubinoff architect, and then we also have Adam detour of 15. Hello. Uh, Zach Gertrude Road, who is the owner of this condo, the upper condo and this two family. Let's start off with what is the zoning district. This is it 1,000,000 in West wuxby it's a 1F district. And so this is a two family in a and a one family district. Tell us what is proposed as a shed dormer. So, I'm just closing on the second floor. So the addicts place actually, sorry. We're adding a shed dormer that will have a master bedroom and a master bedroom. Okay, and how many bedrooms in this second unit? Good question. I think there's two bedrooms. Two bedrooms. Two bedrooms. Two bedrooms. Two bedrooms. Presently, I think we would be adding a third here. Okay. Be adding a third here. So, quick question for you, Derek. How's this old house doing with your building? I filmed our wrap up episode last Wednesday and we're all done. So thank you. Thank you for asking. Appreciate it. I should swing by one time to see what it looks like. You're welcome anytime. Yeah. So how are the plans, Mr Robinson? Lands are good. No, no question. It's very straightforward. Okay. Is anybody here to speak and support our in opposition of this? Apologies. Madam chair. Thank you. Thank you, Mr Robinson. We're going to go with the Board of the Board. Jake Lacey again, with the Office of the Neighborhood Services. Community meeting was held with the West Rocks Me Neighborhood Council on the 25th of January of this year, where the council voted 707 and zero in support of the project. We've not received any letters of opposition and we defer to the board at this time. Thank you. Madam chair secretary, we do have those same letters of may as office vocal. I have no raised hands at the moment. May I have a motion please? I will make a motion to approve. I will second that motion. Hi, two men support. See you're all set. Good luck. Thank you so much. Thank you very much. Calling the next case. Calling VOA 12836961230. So just feel the road. Build a fitness center. You consist of showers, restrooms, locker rooms, office space, exercise area. The violation is Article 51, section 16. Fitness center is conditionally used in a CC one sub district. Name and address for the record please. Yes, mella is revich at 1230 soldiers. You'll road. So please tell us is this is this within a project that went through an article 80 or is it an existing building where it's just a proposed change of use? It's an existing building with a proposed change of use. So we won't be changing the building, the parking, green spaces, none of it. OK, so tell us. Tell us about this fitness center. The arms of operation. How is parking to be accommodated? So there is an existing parking lot that's quite large and we will have a portion of those spaces designated to us by our landlord. It's a 4,700 square foot fitness club community driven small business. We're not affiliated with any other gym or chain. Like we said, we're not changing the existing building at all. And yeah. OK, how would the plans Mr Robinson? Plans are good. I think this came through for a lab use on the balance of the building. If I was trying to put it together as well. That's right. OK, so I was wondering about OK, so yeah, no questions on this proposed scope. I think it makes sense to me. OK. OK, is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition of this proposal? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor Newman with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. So the applicant, flyer of the neighborhood are obviously not here any concerns from the butters. They also went to the Austin Civic Association receive their full support as well. Thank you. Madam Chair, Secretary here, we do have one letter of support. Thank you, Madam Chair. I have no way of saying it. OK, Mayor, have a motion, please. I'll make a motion to approve. I'll second that motion. I too am in support. So you're all set. Good luck. Thank you. I'm calling the last case for rediscussion. Calling case B-O-A-109462033-Botlet Street. This is a renovation of the existing dirt floor attic. Renovated space will consist of a master bedroom, not a bathroom, a bedroom, along with the bath and guest room, bedroom. The existing gable roof will be in large with an addition of shed and gable dormers. The violation is Article 62, Section 25. Two dormers are proposed, roof structure restriction, and Article 62, Section 8. The side yard is insufficient. May I have an address for the record, please? Hello, my name is Timothy Shean. I'm the architect for the project. Yeah, in short, this is an existing single family owner occupied house. And this current dirt floor attic is just too small, so we're making it bigger. Basically, the building will be about three and a half feet higher. It will still be almost four feet under the 35 foot requirement, the 35 maximum height requirement. And essentially, what we're doing is we're adding a master bedroom, a minimal bedroom, and a bathroom on this dirt floor. The neighborhood process, we've had a few deferrals. We worked everything. Why were you deferred the last time? We just needed time to work with the neighbors. It's gone really well with the neighbors. I think we even have a letter for support. And we were just working with the butters at 35 Devin Bow and Paul at 31 on the right. So we just took the time to do a couple of shadow studies. OK. Yeah, move some windows around. We eliminated that gable on the left. And on the right side, we just moved the dormer back to help the solar angle for Paul at 31. How would the plan, Mr. Robinson, is this a do you have the most updated set? I believe so, yes. And it looks fairly straightforward. I mean, obviously, I think raising it changes a little bit of the proportion. So that would sort of be my only question, but not necessarily a question for the proposed scope. So I'm fine with what the proposal is. Yeah. OK. Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition? Yes, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Connor Newman with the Mayors Office, Neighborhood Services. At this time, Mayors Office selected to defer judgment to the board from their notes from the alleys on the conduct of the community process. No concerns were raised from the butters. And at this time, we defer to the board. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Madam Chair. I have no raised hands. OK. May I have a motion, please? I'll make a motion to approve. I think it would be a designer review just because of the raising of the entire roof. Just to make sure everything proportionally looks good. I'll second that motion. I too, and support. So you're all set. Good luck. Thank you, everybody. Thank you. The meeting is now adjourned. I will see the staff and board members. Aren't you safe? Thank you. Have a good night. Good night. Good night.