 Good evening. The City of Boston's oning Board of Appeal Hearing for May 15, 2025 is now in session. This hearing is being conducted in accordance with the applicable provisions of the open meeting law, including the updated provisions enacted by the legislature last this year. The new law allows the board to continue its practice of holding virtual hearings through June 20, 207. This hearing of the board is being held remotely via the Zoom webinar event platform. This meeting is also being lectured. Okay. Thank you. Being recorded. Thank you. In order to ensure this hearing of the board is open to the public, members of the public may access this hearing through telephone and video conferencing. The information for connecting to this hearing is listed on today's hearing agenda, which is posted on the public notices page of the city's website, Boston.gov. Members of the public will enter the virtual hearing as attendees, which means you will not see yourself on the screen and you will be muted throughout unless administratively unmuted when asked to comment. What members, applicants and their attorneys or representatives will participate in the hearing as panelists and they will appear alongside the presentation materials from speaking. Panelists are strongly encouraged to keep video on while presenting to the group. As with our in-person meetings, comments and support will be followed by comments in opposition. The order of comments is as follows. Elected officials, representatives and elect officials and members of the public. The chairman will limit the number of people called upon to it. Offer a comment and the time for commenting is time constraints require for that reason the board prefers to hear from members of the board members of the public who are most impacted by a project that is those individuals who live closest to the project. If you wish to comment on an appeal, please click the raise hand button along the bottom of your screen in the Zoom webinar platform. Click it again and your hand should go down. When the host sees your hand, you will receive a request to unmute yourself. Select yes and you should be able to talk. If you are connected to the hearing by telephone, please press star 9 to raise and lower your hand. You must press star 6 to unmute yourself after you receive the request from the host. Those called upon to comment will be asked to state their name and address first and then can provide their comment. Wrong direction. As with nope. Keep going. In the interest of time and to ensure that you have enough time to do so, please raise your hand as soon as Mr. Stembridge reads the address into the record. Do not raise your hand before the relevant address is called or the meeting host will not know to call on you at the appropriate time. Mr. Stembridge. Good evening, Madam Chair President. Good evening, Mr. Stembridge. We will begin with the hearing schedule from 5 p.m. First, we have case B.O.A. 1705409, the address of 8 Hongkot Street, 50 out of 10, or they represent another president. They will be explaining to the board. Do we know if the applicant for 8 Hongkot Street is on? Yes, I'm here. Okay, great. Thank you. I'm the owner of the house and I also have my contractor on the line. Great. Whoever is presenting, if you could just state your name for the record. Are you presenting? Yes, I am. We weren't really expecting to present. We were just going to be answering questions. Someone needs to move before. Okay, that's okay, but someone needs to briefly tell us what you're using. I can. So I live at 8 Hongkot Street. I know that we have to say that we're adding a dormer, but there is an existing dormer. It's a large dormer. There are a pretty. And we're just proposing to expand it. Um, my, I lived there with my twin boys, and that one of them is using this as a bedroom. And he's almost six feet tall and having a duck under ceilings is not really working for our family. So what we're proposing is doubling the size of our dormer, which would exactly match the house to the left of our. I know that there were some photos that I had submitted, but I don't know if you have those on file, but it would basically be, you know, both of our houses would end up being twins from the front. So that's really it. And then in the back, I'm just, you know, completing the walls to, you know, create a second bedroom. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? Hearing none may I have public testimony. Madam Chair and board members, good evening. So you Johnson with the mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This petitioner completed the ONS community process. Our office hosted in a butter's meeting at which no concerns were raised with that background. We defer judgment to the board. Thank you. Thank you. There's no other hands raised. Okay, would that may have a motion? And chair, I'd like to put for a motion of approval with a provider that the project be reviewed through the BPD, especially since the project gets under a neighborhood design overly district. And just for the out and safe planning department, is there a second? There. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Is better brazo. Yes. The motion carries. Good luck, ma'am. And I ask a question because I've never done this before. What does that mean? What the first person said? The proviso just means that the Boston planning department will. Your project will undergo design review with the Boston planning department as part of its approval. Okay. And then part of your approval process. Okay. And then so what are what are the next steps just so that I can kind of stay on top of this? Like what can I expect? I'm going to ask you to call staff. I don't know Caroline. If you have a person she can call or just to call the ISD number. Yeah, she can call the ZBA office. Look at us as chairman. All right. Great. Thank you. Next, we have case BOA 169 3892. So you can call staff. And we'll call staff. It's the average of 288. Shaman Avenue. It's the applicant. And where they represent the president with that. We'll explain the case to the board. Good evening. I will lead some I have present on the call for proposed change of use of two 88 Shaman Avenue. Good evening, everyone. Thank you to the board for seeing us. Our ask here today is that we convert our retail location back to its original. We're going to talk about the same concept. We're going to talk about the same concept. Long ago in the early 90s and late 90s. This was a Lebanese restaurant turned into a flower shop in a yoga studio. Our family is looking to convert it back to a restaurant. The same concept Lebanese food. Tap us. And we're here today for. A conversation with the board regarding this process. So, that's the conversation that we're going to talk about. Is that a conversation that we're going to talk about. Do you have a slide that shows the actual plans and whatever violations that you have to address? That was that should have an email to you guys from the city. I think ever message you guys today and should have it. Thank you. That would be helpful. So yes. So, that's the conversation that we're going to talk about. This is the existing restaurant right now. What we've done is we've renovated the entire building. And we've, you know, the building had them in touch for a long time. This is what it was before. We've enhanced the back front all of the property to look something like this. This is our proposed vision of the restaurant. Open concept Lebanese restaurant. Upscale tap us with a focus on Lebanese and Mediterranean flavors. Vegetarian menu with a small dining room downstairs. And we've got two levels. Two levels. Yes. So, one of the reasons that the two level design happened is we went through the city of Boston road and action plan. Knowing that some of the issues going there, we decided with our team that it was best that we put the kitchen on the main floor, not downstairs in the basement or any kind of usage there to mitigate that infestation or anything that might occur. So that was one of the options. That's why the multi level design. And we could have put just the kitchen downstairs and you know made it full dining upstairs. But we wanted to be cognizant of the areas of liability with that. So we put the cooking facility upstairs. They'll be right to your left. So. That way that was one way to kind of mitigate that. Also, it just create a little private dining space that neighbors and people can use. And for functions and events because you know where family oriented type of eating culture where you can come in order a bunch of place and share them. So we want to create spaces that groups and families can use together. Great. Just a quick question. What's the seating capacity for both? Right now we don't have an official seating capacity. We were kind of coming to you guys. I think that right there, which will be total of 40 seats. That was based on what was there before. And we also want to make sure that there's no random areas that things can kind of build nest and stuff. So that's why you see the open format on both floors. Other questions from the board. Is the existing is the storefront existing? Are you doing any? It looks like there's a step down. So your entrance is not accessible. So you know, I guess the question is, are you doing anything to modify that storefront? Yes, ma'am. We have that one step ledge outside. And it's a short sidewalk. There's no way to add a ramp or anything. We have put an ADA bathroom in there just in case. But like all our neighbors. It's. I've been speaking to. You know, the city about the front. We have a. We have after this. Probably another call with them. But there's nothing to do to mitigate that one step. It is holding the building up basically. Okay. Great. Thank you. No further questions. You said that. I believe you have 40. 40 seats at this point. Are you planning on changing that? Adding or. We wanted to come to you guys first to see the this process. We do intend to bring in a design team to tell us. We will. Anything we do will come to you first, but. We haven't gone that far. We don't want to jump ahead without, you know, talking to everyone first and making sure that. You know, this was something that we can. Move forward with. When we do hopefully get the blessing and move forward, then we'll get a finalized number and finalized plan. Detailed to everybody with the exact numbers. No. Okay. And your egress in the basement goes outside to next year. Yes, to the alley. I've we've also made the door bigger. If you know those areas back there. The stairs, the doors were very small. They're under four feet. We made the door the biggest possible. Also, we took extra precaution out there. If you know that alley, it's all dirt. We've dug it out and put a concrete slab there to eliminate. Any kind of water coming back in clean up the alley and also make it at easier egress out the back for in case of emergency. You got for bed. Okay. Great. And we also have an egress up to the roof and egress from the front. And can ask what hours of operation you have. Yeah. So so right now the proposed operations are going to be. Open preparation. We're not planning on doing lunch right now. So it'd be traditional five to five to midnight Monday Thursday. And then like our neighbors, so two a.m. on Friday to Sunday. So let's open it up to public testimony. I do want to make me sorry, I dropped you. May I just add that we went through the neighborhood meetings and we listen to the neighbors. We discussed all the concerns, including noise in the alley. The exhaust and again, road is entrash. So I just want to mention that during the neighborhood meetings. We did address those and we offered solutions to some of the neighbors who are bringing things up. And we are happy to accommodate what we need to do to get this into a restaurant space. So we're going to hear a lot about, you know, these type of things. And we just want to assure you that we've heard these. We've put an action plan together and we're already addressed and it's happening as we need. Thanks so much. That's helpful because we did get a lot of feedback for, you know, in opposition hand in support. But the opposition, I think commented on some of the things you just addressed, which were trash wrote in. I think some alleyway, you know, people. Yeah. Small and alleyways. Things like that. Those were those were echoed many times around the last meeting from some of the neighbors. And we've assured them we'll do our due diligence and do everything we need to do. I just, we are a new restaurant. We have a track record, our old restaurant, the self end of being very, you know, neighbor friendly. And I just want to reiterate the sentiment that we are a new restaurant. And anything someone else is doing is not a reflection of us. And we would like to be, you know, I think it would be injustice to be judged on someone else's actions. Whereas we deserve the right to, you know, get an opportunity. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Is the other applicant want to say more? Yes. To piggyback on that just before we start. I don't own or operate the restaurants to our right or left. And wrongfully so I don't want to represent and answer any questions on their behalf. Last call. I was we were responding to questions that didn't pertain to us. And I feel that it's. It's as trying to be a good neighbor. I would just like to not respond to questions about any of the restaurants that are around us. Because I don't know their policy procedures and mistake by my part. I tried to field all the questions and try to. You know, talk through them. I really like to kind of focus on our business because I don't want to do them and you deserve it by responding on behalf of any of the other great businesses in the self end. Thank you. And so we're going to open it up to public testimony and as noted, please focus on whether you're in support for opposition to this project and briefly state your reasons. Thank you. Good morning, Madam. Good afternoon, Madam Chair and members of the board. My name is Eva Jones and I'm here on the day on behalf of the mayor's office and neighborhood services to express our support for this proposal at 280 shaman a while attended a butters meeting was held on March 27, 2023 where constituents raised concerns, including noise from trash removal excessive drinking restaurant noise from the back alley and double parking. Our office received four letters in opposition from this from a butters where concerns mirror these are those in the meeting. In response, the applicant has committed to several mitigation efforts, including rubber acoustic matting, fortifying the rear was concrete to reduce pests, taking trash out the front of rooftop exhaust system to reduce noise and smell. And so I think that's really important to be able to make sure that the residents of the state are able to reduce the front area of the restaurant to reduce loitering and double parking and putting shades on the front windows to reduce slight pollution into the neighborhood. Support was also expressed throughout the process, including at the butters meeting, residents, and the size, the return of Lebanese culture to the south and prayed the applicant's longstanding community involvement and noted that similar smaller restaurants have operated successfully in the area suggesting that this one shouldn't be of no issue. The applicant's past record of running successful establishments and collaboration with neighbors. My office has received 33 letters in support, including nine from a butters, a petition with four signatures and a letter of support from representative Moran. Additionally, the proposal was reviewed with the Bradford Bradford neighborhood association who did not take a stance, but as a result of this engagement. Members of the association who are butters have provided a letter in opposition with 21 signatures regarding the proposal and noted ongoing issues from food establishments in the back alley, including trash, rats, exhaust orders and staff smoking as well as gate damage to the back alley. And in the front of the establishment cited late night disruptions like double parking and noise all concerns that were also expressed in the butters meeting. The pilot block neighborhood association and adjacent civic association also provided a letter of support citing the applicant's history of responsible business operations through his other properties and his community engagement as well as the commitment to be a good neighbor. At this time, the mayor of the office and neighborhood services believes that this is an appropriate use for this location and believes that the applicant has taken the mitigated steps required to work with the community and my office would like to again express our support regarding the proposal to a Desham and Avenue. Thank you everybody for your time and consideration. Thank you. There's nine hands raised so let's start with. All right, be quick, big, big quick folks please. Hi, this is Sarah Galen 26 Bradford Street directed butter. I appreciate the applicants long service to the community. I understand the historical use of that property, but we've been there for 15 years for 15 years. It's been a very different kind of use. I still have a lot of concerns about adding extra noise and other. The other impacts on the alley, so I shared my concerns in a letter and I'll just leave it at that. I understand that there have been some discussion or representations made about how these would be addressed. How do those get formalized and anything that's under consideration, for example, trash service in the alley and the noise for trash service in the alley. So you know, there's a lot of people who are looking to speak, but that's the that's the genesis of my opposition. Thank you for the time to address. Thank you, ma'am. Hello. My name is Spencer. I live at 255 Shaman Avenue, and I just wanted to express my complete and full support of this project. I think, you know, part of the charm of living in our neighborhood and living in the south end is being. I think that's the reason why these businesses. And like people don't live it like they wanted their. Sorry. So yeah, I think this would be a great addition to our neighborhood. And I think that, you know, we could use. These different restaurants and you know, I'm in full support of. It's already part of me. I'm going to ask you to come to the city. Yes. Hi, my name is Gail Ciamoto, and I live on one of the joining streets. I have a procedural comment I want to make. We did we're not notified. And I believe none of my neighbors are notified by the board of appeal of this hearing. So I'm not sure that it can go forward. I'm not sure if that's the case. But I think that's what I think it's one of the things that I'm looking to. As somebody who was sort of in the know about this situation. We've been known. We are notified routinely about other board of appeal hearings, but we were not notified about this one. I have three substantive comments to make. First of all, I was at the butters meeting. I did not understand. I think it's a lot of concern. I think there's a lot of concerns there for egress, particularly given that the front of the building is below is below grade. I agree that this applicant should not be prejudice by the actions or behavior of other restaurants. In the area, but I think it is a cautionary tale. And I think to have two restaurants on a relatively small commercial street where that it's mostly residential. That both have two a.m. liquor licenses is too much for the neighborhood to bear. It becomes more of a bar with food after, say midnight. If they were to bring that back to it, a midnight closing. I think more people would be in support of it. I think I also at the butters meeting asked about food delivery because that is one of the big issues for the other establishments. I think that's one of the big issues for the other establishments. I think that's one of the big issues for the other establishments. In the area, if you look at 311 every single night, there are complaints about double parkers on Shobin Avenue for all of the other dining establishments. And the applicant said that they've been working on this plan for over two years. And yet when I asked about dining and whether they would use delivery services, they said they had not thought about that yet. So if they would dial it back, I could support it. But at this point in time, I'm opposed to the project. Thank you. As a sequence speakers again, please be brief and state or supporter opposition. Yes, I'll try to be brief, but I live directly above the proposed project. I think it would be like a great, I'm fully supportive of the project. I think I live right above it. So like the Franklin Cafe also is running here and I usually don't hear any noise. I live directly, so I don't think it's more to be a big factor for me. Thank you. Okay. Thank you. Hello, my name is AJ R. Stamian. I live at 24 Shobin Avenue, a few doors down. I'm in full support of this project. I, I don't see any issues moving forward. So they have my full support and the neighborhood would definitely appreciate a new establishment. And all the concern about neighborhood double parking, you know, we have Chilacata is directly across the street where you have a bunch of Uber drivers picking things up. You have people picking up food over at the Franklin. I, you know, it's the city. People double park all the time. I don't see that being a huge issue. So they have my full support. Thank you very much. I'm going to ask others to again, just state your support or opposition. We want to get through everyone. Otherwise, I'm going to start asking people to put their comments in the chat. Thank you. Sean. Can you hear me? Yes. Yeah, this is Sean McConnell. I live right and back of next to sorry. And we're direct to butters. And I pose the project. I think that it's too dense of an area to have another restaurant. And I'm concerned about, you know, pest and pest and especially noise. I think that with 19 people signing a letter from our street opposing the project. I just find it a little disrespectful to go forward with it. Thank you. Joseph. Hello. My name is Joseph Morris. I live at 275. Sean, Manavano. So directly across from the proposed location. I am in full support of the project. I lived above Nicole's pizza. Another one of the family's restaurants for three years. I've been at my current location across the street from the proposed location for seven years. I can tell you from personal experience that the family runs their businesses with the utmost care and respect for the community. And I am in full support. Has one my here. Did you want to weigh in on this? I see you commented. Yes, it isn't my turn. I'm sorry. I said, I said, Cal swear, my here. I'm sorry. You were. Keep going then. Go ahead, Catherine. Yeah, so I'm cap and on you. I live at 274 to doors down from the proposed location. And I'm opposed by largest concern has to do with the late hours. Can you. I'm wondering most of the restaurants in the south end do not stay open that way. And nothing else on this immediate block closes a state of an outlet. We have really just little shops. You know there's a bookstore that stays up until lunch, but this is not. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Yes, indeed, and I appreciate your relation, but I just want to make sure that I know what I just finished the hearing. So I'm not I'm here to speak on behalf of a specific the Guillaume Tambora project. And I'm not sure if it's already been. We're at 280 Shama dab. Is that the project you're speaking on? No, it's a Guillaume Tambora. Okay, then we'll keep moving then so we'll see you in a bit. Thank you. My name is Mattel and I live at 278 Shama directly above this location and I'm in full support of the restaurant moving and absolutely no concerns about noise level at night. Not an issue similar with trash and pass and Fadi and wallet are absolutely amazing landlords. We're going to make a lot of money to make a lot of money and make a lot of money to make a lot of money. And I think the restaurant will be nothing but great for the south end community. Thank you. So, you know, there's still a lot of raised hands. So if we're going to get to you, I only want to hear your your name address and whether you're in supporter opposition. We've heard reasons so we're, you know, just just that. Eric. I'm going to keep going. I'm going to keep going. Thank you. Hi, my name is V. I live at 278 A. Shaman right above the restaurant and I'm in full support. Thank you. Thank you. We're going to keep going. Brandon. I'm going to keep going. My habit. Hi, my name is Mohammed Schumann and I live right above the restaurant. I support. I'm a bit used to an 11 years restaurant. It would mean a lot to my community as well. Thank you. Joseph. I'm going to keep going. I'm going to keep going. Yes, 16 Bradford Street. I mean, opposed. This seems to be a location that is looking for a business rather than a business looking for location. There are vacant restaurants in the neighborhood. And I have not heard why those places are considered. Okay, I think we've heard quite enough. I'm sorry. Let's turn it back to our member board members for any questions and the applicant for a brief response. Any other questions from the board? Man, chair, just asking the applicants. Are there where of the comments from the disabilities commission? I'm sorry, Mr. Schumann. I'm not. I didn't hear the question properly. I'm not. One of the inputs to this process is the disability commission for the city and Boston. And they wrote some comments in regards to your proposal. Are you aware of those? I am not aware of those. Obviously. Very briefly, the restaurant should ensure that a section of the bars lower for real chip access. And that 5% of the tables are accessible. Sorry, I apologize. I have a back connection to the average that even though we don't have ADA access, we have accommodated the lower bar the tables and ADA bathroom. We ask you to get in touch with these people just so that you know what they're saying. Absolutely. Thank you. Norm, that's why I didn't bring it up because the tables were not fixed. Usually that could be accommodated. And the only issue that I wanted to have clarity on was the front entrance to see whether that was being proposed or whether that was existing. So most likely they're being grandfathered. But thanks for bringing that up. And the applicant comment about hours just that you know that sounded like one of the concern. Yeah, absolutely. If it was brought up at the last time that maybe a 1 a.m. or 12 a.m. license would work. More than happy to try that in a trial period. But this is what I want to make sure that we address and we address last time. If I have next door at open till 2 a.m. Great establishment. I let people out at 12 or 1. I cannot be held responsible for people waiting outside to get into that establishment. And then loitering. And what's going to happen is people will leave to go continue out there and it will be add extra pressure and bottleneck into the establishment next door. We are a fine dining restaurant. The kitchen is bigger than the bar. We own the property property value is very important to us. The restaurant build out is an extremely intricate design. This is not a fast food place. This is a fine dining place neighborhood location, cozy warm and inviting to everyone. It's not something that we're expecting high turnover. This is not respectfully like any other businesses that are trying to pump volume out. Our kitchen is bigger than our bar. We plan on serving food that is top notch, top quality made daily. We don't have a walk and cooler. We're going to make everything daily. We're not storing large prepared foods. It is a culinary place that people are going to come enjoy and experience with that being said. I don't know if I'm going to have to have someone come pick up food and being told I'm disingenuous. It's not because I've been very clear with we want to try to go to 2 a.m. We've answered every question. We've gone outside and done meter readings on the noise, way below ordinance, being told that we're ingenuous, not accurate, being told in the group that our tennis are compromised absolutely not. We're ethical, we're moral, we've been in the community a long time. Our reputation stands for ourselves, our work stands for ourselves. We don't have to compromise tenants and we don't have to play around. We ask for 2 a.m. We're not sugarcoding it. If it closes at one, it's going to create a bottleneck of people leaving to the next open location. Second, we have how they choose to run their business and how their clients leave. Again, that's not how we run it. Thank you. I understand. Any other questions from the board? Can I just make one more comment just about the letters of support? I think the neighbor services might have not updated it. We have over 90 letters of support and I have a drop box I can share with everyone from and at least 15 of butters just so we're all at the same page. Thank you so much. Thank you. Are we ready for motion? Yes. Please. I'd like to put for a motion of approval. Is there a second? All right. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. It's better brazo. Yes. The chair votes yes. The motion carries. I'd like to thank the chair for your time. Thank you so much. Thank you to the board and neighbors. Next, we have case BOA 169 9132 with the address of 150 Huntington Avenue. If the applicant and the representative of present would they please explain to the board. The applicant for 150 Huntington Avenue. Yes. Hi. I'm the owner of the new business. I just want to expand. I think our case is easy because we just remove the the the the price of for the special name of the regular revolution. JuSpot we just do the business like cocoa bubble tea. I think they are the same thing. We use we don't change anything. We just upgrade the plumbing system and the new counter. That's it. Gotcha. Thank you. Any questions from the board? I have public testimony. Madam Chair and board members, singing Johnson with the mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services, our office oversaw distribution of a flyer to every butter within a 300 foot radius that comprises a community process for this proposal that flaring solicited one letter of support and no other comments. The St. Patal of Neighborhood Association is in non opposition. With that background, we defer judgment to the board. Thank you. Thank you. There's no other hands raised. May I have a motion? Madam Chair, I'd like to perform a motion of approval. Second. Second. Mr. Stemberidge. Yes. Is better browser. Yes. Chair votes. Yes, the motion carries. Good luck. Next, we have case B.O.A. 1704531 with the address of 76 to 84 boils in street. Is the house contend with the representative of president with their place? Yes. Thank you, Madam Chair, board members. Daniel Brennan here on the system, the restaurant owner, getting the licenses and permit approvals. Ahmed is also on the call. He's a restaurant owner. This is a small space. The actual street address is 215 trademark. It's in the Emerson little building. It's just 750 square feet. Proposed is just a small little specialty burger joint. No seating, no alcohol. We met with the downtown Boston Neighborhood Association, distributed flyers. No opposition that were aware of. Proposed hours 11 a.m. to 1 a.m. And that's all I have for you right now. Questions from the board. Hearing none, may I have public testimony? Good afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is Eva Jones. I'm representing the mayor's office and neighborhood services regarding 76 to 84 boils in street. The mayor's office will defer to the board's judgment on this matter. A community process was conducted, including the distribution of a subcommittee flyer on 321 25. We received no feedback from constituents regarding this flyer. Additionally, the proposal was discussed with the downtown Boston Neighborhood Association, which convened on 326 25. At this time, the mayor's office and neighborhood services deferred to the board's judgment on this matter. Thank you, everyone, for your time and consideration. Vanessa? Good morning, Madam Chair and members of the board. This is Vanessa Woo from Councillor Flynn's office. Councillor Flynn is not able to support this proposal at this time due to concerns regarding 3rd party deliveries and moats and public and pedestrian safety. Thank you, everyone, for the opportunity. And he would like to urge the proponent to continue to work with neighbors and stakeholders and the transportation department on concerns regarding regarding pickup and drop off. Thank you. Thank you. No other hands. Okay, any other questions from the board. I don't know if the applicant wants to respond to the concern about the takeouts. I mean, that was discussed with the downtown neighborhood association. I didn't feel that it was an opposition. There was a discussion about possibly having a designated spot for delivery services like door digestion such. I mean, we are right next to Tatte and Elhaepays that are doing the same thing. I don't know if we need to find a designated spot for these delivery drivers, but it's pretty much in line with the other tenants in the building. I'm a little caught off guard actually. I didn't know that we wouldn't have any opposition. Understood. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? May I have a motion? Madam Chair, I'd like to put forward a motion of approval. Is there a second? There. Is there a second? Yes. Is there a second? Yes. Is there a second? Yes. Is there a second? Yes. Is there a second? Yes. Is there a second? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. The motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Next, we have to be away. 169-522-21. If you add just a 43-thruple street. I'm going to avoid. Applicant for 43, Preble street on. Do you want to keep going? We will. We will. Yes. We will. We will. Yes. I'm sorry. Mr. Dempsey, are you here for 43, Preble? He was on earlier. I'm not sure. Can you hear me now? Yes. Are you here for 43, Preble? That's me. Great. So can you just state your name for an address for the record? Yes. Let's see. Yes. Yes. Well, therats. Be really tired. Very tired. Sorry for the bands. So. And for people with a better feet, some withOUTyo after rent. I've been there for 32 years. And I was going to retire last year. So I kind of let my usethrowlicence expire. But now I want to stay in the other two to three years. I just want to renew my dear list license. That's all. questions from the board? Yes. This is a, that you are requesting for an outdoor display of newer use motor vehicles. Is the display existing? Yes, I've had a license that 30 years. Okay. This doesn't get met him chair. We did receive some feedback recommendation, but from BPD. Right. I think I'm, I think I'm okay with continuing the license that he's has received that is just a display. Well, let's go through public. Okay. Festival. Alright, so with that, can we public testimony? Madam Chair and board members, see Johnson with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. This petitioner completed the ONS community process. Our office over saw distribution of an informational flyer to all the butter is in a 300 foot radius, and we decided one letter of support and no other comments. With that background, we defer judgment to the board. Thank you. Thank you. Yes, sir. Good afternoon, Madam Chair and members of the board. Councillor Flynn has no issues with this case. He would like to go on record and support. Thank you. There's no other hands. Will that man have a motion? Yes, Mr. Chair, I'd like to go for a motion of approval with a proviso that the applicant submits. Just a plan or an elevation or even photographs detailing the size and dimensions and location of the signage for BPD records. Thank you. Is there a second? Sorry. Mr. Stambridge. Yes. Mr. Stambridge. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. The motion carries. Good luck, sir. Thank you so much. Thank you. Next we have case B. Away. One, six, eight, nine, eight, nine. I got it. Eight green lead place. If the applicant and they represent a person with their police explain to the board. Thank you so much. Thank you. Thank you for having me. My name is Bailey Chang and I'm here with my wife, Susan. You may hear at moments some cuing from our daughter and I apologize for that in advance. The purpose of our request is to try to get a in a variance to the 10 feet set back from the property line rule that is that is called the law. The law is the law that is called the law that is called the law that is called the law that is codified in the edicts of the city. Currently, as it stands, we have a driveway on the southern part of our home in Jamaica, plane, which can be seen on the plat showing right here. That driveway is completely uncovered and there is a small porch by which one is to gain egress into the first floor on the side that is starting to begin to be. Our hope is to make for the sake of our three children a all at once a covered area for us the park of vehicle under so that we can load our children the vehicle without exposing them to the vagaries and the attitudes of Boston's precipitation. While at the same time furnishing a safe area that can be closed off on which the children can play. To support the parking of our vehicle underneath the opposed to that structure, it is necessary to encroach upon the setback that is that is demanded by the city ordinance. This current southern boundary of our property, which we've most affected borders, a property owned by Mr. Mr. Kurt of curts and motors. He is a good neighborhood friend of ours and has expressed support for this project. We've also had we also have good relations with our other neighbors in the on greenly place who are also looking forward to potentially using the deck space for a place for children to play. Thank you. Questions from the board. Hearing none can have public testimony. I'm the board for the record. My name is Jeremy Bembery. I'm the Jamaica Plain Community Engagement Specialist for the Office of Neighborhood Services. The applicant has completed the community process, which consists of a boat is meeting lightly attended facilitated on March 5th, where our bodies voice inquiries that were addressed during the meeting such as time frame and road of control. Next to propose was presented to Jamaica Plain neighborhood council where they received a vote of approval. Thank you for your time in the mess office of neighborhood services. We'll like to defer to the board. Thank you. I know what their hands raised. With that, may I have a motion? Madam chair, I'd like to look forward to motion of approval. There's second. Sorry. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. This better braza. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. The motion carries. Good luck, sir. Thank you. Next, we have case B away. 1564124 with the address of 21 Waterloo Street. If the applicant and what they represent our president, they please explain to the board. Thank you. Thank you. Are you Mr. Lion, are you here? Yes, we can. I'm the owner of 21 Waterloo Street. It used to be a two-family house. Yes. I can hear you. Yeah, please proceed. Yeah, it was a two-family property up until 2003 and the owner that had it before me decided to switch it back to a one family. I was in the house in 2023. I proposed to convert it back to a two-family house, but there's an issue with the open space requirements and the parking on the driveway. So I'm looking to get some relief from the zoning board to allow that. I'm not changing anything to the envelope of the building. It looked exactly the same on the outside. All I did on the inside was put new egress doors into each unit. So there's two for each one. It's a one bedroom on the first floor and then a three bedroom on the second and third floor. So it's just a two unit building like it was before. Are there questions from the board? Hearing none, may I have public testimony? Madam, Madam chair members of the board for the record. My name is Jeremy Benbury. I am the high park community engagement specialist for the office of neighborhood services. The applicant has completed the community process, which consists of when the board is meeting very lightly attended for said it on October 23rd. For one, a bother voiced support for the proposal. Next project was presented to read for watch neighborhood association where they voted to support the proposal. We've received no letters at this time to our office. Thank you for your time in the mayor's office of neighborhood services. We'll like to defer to the board. Thank you. Thank you. No other hands are raised. Thank you. With that, may I have a motion? Madam chair, given that the zoning is too family, the request seems almost as a right. So with that, I would like to put forward motion approval. If there's second. Sorry. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. It's better Rosa. Yes. Chair votes. Yes, the motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Next, we have case B O A 161 2451. The address of 1251 to 1269 River Street. If the applicant and or their representative president, if they please point to the board. Hi. Can you guys hear me? Yes, we can. Yes, my name is Shasoud. I would like to take over the currently. It's a running business. It's called New York, right chicken. And with nothing is really going to change. It's the same. You know, same business. We're not adding anything. We're not removing anything. It just most likely going to be name change. And. Same food, you know. Any questions from the board? Yes. Yes. May I have public testimony? Madam Chair and members of the board for the record. My name is Jarrabe February. I am the. High Park Community to Engage and Specialist for the Office of Neighborhood Services. The applicant has completed the community process was consisted of a new board is reading. Again. My apologies, my. I have a question. I have a question. We may want to just go off video. Okay. Sorry. That's okay. Other technology. All right. You want to try again, Mister. Madam Chair, members of the board. For the record, my name is Jarrabe February. I am the high park for community engagement specialist for the office of neighborhood services. The applicant has completed the community process, which consisted of a new board is reading. I have a question. I have a question. I have a question. October. 23rd. I'm sorry. I'm apologies for. Mem. A notification to a button is a flyer. The community process consisted of a notification to a button is by flyer. The proponents intend to add takeout. The proponent presented to high park neighborhood association where they would support the proposed. Thank you for your time. I'm sorry. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. No other hands are raised. We have motion. Madam Chair, I'd like to put forward motion approval. Okay. We have a second. There. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Miss bed. Yes. Share votes. Yes. The motion carries. Good luck, sir. Thank you so much. Next we have case. Be aware. One six. Six. Nine. Eight. The address of one on the statement street. The applicant is going to represent a vote present. Yes, Mr. Stembridge. Good evening, Madam Chair. Members of the board, attorney Derek. Small. Business address of 51 dobson wrote. With me today on the call is Mr. Stefan Gillings, who is the owner of the property. Madam Chair, we're here tonight seeking relief to construct a new dormer and a new rear addition to the one family house. Here, the zoning sub district is a one F. Six thousand. Our lot size is 6,137 square feet. The zoning violations are as follows. Lot with the requirement is 60 feet. We have 50, which is a preexisting nonconforming. Accessive FAR. The required FAR in this zoning sub district is .5. We are going to .5. Eight. The number of stories with regard to the dormer that is being placed. Requirement is 35 feet and two and a half stories. We are at 32 feet in height, Madam Chair. And they're considered to be the number of stories that are being placed. We have a number of stories that are being placed. We have a number of stories that are being placed. We have a number of stories that are being placed. We have a number of stories that are being placed. We have a number of stories that are being placed. We have a number of stories that are being placed. We have a number of stories that are being placed. We have a number of stories that are being placed. We have a number of stories that are being placed. We have a number of stories that are being placed. We have a number of stories that are being placed. We have a number of stories that are being placed. We have a number of stories that are being placed. We have a number of stories that are going to be moving in. His mom and his aging parents so that they can age in place. We will open it up to any questions. Thank you. Any questions from the board. Hearing none. Public testimony. Madam Chair and members of the board for the record, My name is Jeremy Bembery and the head of the department of Indigenous Specialists for the Office of New Board Services. the bus is meeting held on January 16th, where a bus did voice opposing concerns stating the project has already been completed and they cannot have an unveiled. A bus is stated they were only attending the meeting because they thought they were trying to build even more without going to the community process. Next, the proponent presented the Hyde Park neighborhood association where they voted in opposition to the proposal to date. We have received one letter of opposition from the Hyde Park neighborhood association stating it was made clear during the meeting. The work has already been completed and at this time and requested the zoning board apply any measures within its authority to adjust this current violation. Thank you for your time and the mayor's office of neighborhood services would like to defer to the board for their job. Madam Chair, if I may risk on to that. Initially when he applied when the permit was applied for, permit was granted for the foundation and then as work was being constructed, the dormer they replaced the roof and then we put a hip dormer on again to get some more space in the head house knowing full well that we were going to have to come back to the ZVA with regard to the dormer piece of it. So that's why we're here. We're here to get the variance for the dormer again. We are still below the height and requirement within feet at 32 feet and again, I used to consider that bump out of the dormer a extra story. Thank you. Other questions from the board? Hearing none may I have a motion? Madam Chair, I'd like to put forward a motion of approval. Is there a second? There. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Bethe-Brasza. Yes. Chair votes yes. The motion carries. Good look. Thank you Madam Chair. I'm Mr. Board. Have a good night. Next we have case B.O.A. 165-5919 with the address of 4014 Washington Street. The applicants and their representative are present with their employees explain. I don't know if is Jen Ellen the applicant or is the applicant for 4014 Washington Street on? Hi. Yes. Are you the applicant? I'm Jennifer Ellen. I'm the attorney for the applicant. And then Felipe Durran is also the owner and he's also logged in as well. Are you presenting or is he? I'm presenting if he's able to speak in case you have any questions regarding any plans or anything that I cannot answer. He'll also be able to answer anything else. Great. Thank you. Please proceed. All right. Thank you. So we are seeking relief from the zoning code for a variance for the insufficient front yard setback which we are short and mere five feet from the requirement. We are seeking to add an enclosed canopy with foundation that is approximately 18 by 10 that will accommodate processing and pick up of takeout orders. It will allow my client to create additional services to the public thus increasing the public good and avoid congestion inside the existing restaurant. He already has a canopy at the entrance of the Eden area that extends out and this will be in conformity with that one which relief was a granted approximately five years ago. So the page just in case so you're showing here if you scroll down a little bit more this shows what is currently and then if you continue down this is shows the proposed if you move up a little bit more down in the left corner right there that shows the proposed addition on the left side. So the addition that we are proposing is consistent with the character of the building and of the existing neighborhood. The building across the street comes right up to the curb along with additional buildings up and down the street. There is no detriment to the existing space or the neighborhood. The addition will be made of glass no different than the other addition. So it doesn't block driver's sight lines while entering and exiting the parking lot. As you see on the plans we're looking to add that new addition to the left side as there's no space anywhere else in the front to accommodate such a structure. It will be handicap accessible and as mentioned it will steer takeout patrons away from the main dining area so that those patrons can enjoy their dinner without interruption. In general takeout business has increased tremendously all over the city and continues to increase and in order to accommodate that business while keeping his other customers safe. This new structure is for the public good and recognizes post-COVID changes to this industry which is what my clients here to do. If relief is granted for this addition my client is also going to create additional parking in the rear of his lot specifically for takeout so that customers are not parking on the street taking those spaces up or parking on side streets. This will also help relieve congestion. We held a neighborhood community meeting and my client has been working diligently with the neighborhood for years on this and they have expressed their support and also expressed their concerns about parking and public safety which Mr. Duran is constantly working on and the glass addition along with the takeout parking in the rear will help alleviate these concerns. Mr. Duran is a resident and has invested interest in this community and has been here for over 20 decades and we are happy to answer any other questions you have. I assume you've been 20 years not 20 decades but I'm sorry. Any questions from the board? I have some clarification questions. So I'm just curious why would you need a hand sink outside of the takeout area? So yeah it's I'm a little bit confused so you have the ADA entry in this new area. It's also takeout area but then you have a hand sink and then you have another new door proposed. So it's just like a functional kind of question. You have basically like four doors right at the front. So can you just kind of walk me through how one is to experience these two separate spaces? And Aula Felipe if he's unmuted speak about that I know at one point because we have been working with building department we've been here before that at one point there was a request for that but with these new plans I will left Felipe answer. Yeah. What do you have an everyone? Good evening. Yes we can hear you. Yes the the reason the sink is there we're trying to play this sink in that area specific area because sometimes employees will need to watch their hand and we that's the only reason that we place out there just for safety measure. It wasn't because it was necessary. We just put out there for safety measure. I mean for employees to need to watch their hand right away and the four door we used to propose one door but we were working with RST closely and they recommend ask to use two different door one one door to get in one door to it out that way we can use the space more more efficiently. So is your other vestibule so which one is like your main entrance for your patrons? Basically the best you know that we have existing or existing. That would be the main entrance for you. That will be the main entrance. Okay and then so the other new new vestibule this new takeout area is that for pickup orders? It will be for pickup order yes. Okay and so basically your existing clientele would automatically know that this is where to go to pick up food. Okay. We're gonna play some signs yeah. Okay so the hand sink is it possible to put it inside the kitchen? Sure definitely yeah there's no problem. Yeah because because my concern is you're almost getting cross contamination if you're getting new new patrons coming in and now picking up and the net's supposed to be like the wash as well for the employee so I you know this is not a zoning question it's more of just to help you logistically for your project and then I'm not sure if you are aware but the BPD provided some recommendations in regards to advising that you actually provide a two-foot kind of setback front setback from from your property line. I don't really see that being an issue because your existing vestibule is already at the property line so you know I take that as a recommendation but it's not necessarily that something we have to follow but I just wanted to put that on a record. Sure definitely yeah. Okay great I don't have any further questions thank you. Thank you can we have a public testimony please? Madam Chair and members of the board. Okay let's defer to the councilors. Yes ma'am my apologies and and thank you Sherry because I've been patiently waiting here. I'm ready to go I have to go get my kids so members of the board just really happy to be here. You don't usually see me showing up to these meetings or nor do I send my staff but if and what I do is because I deeply care about a project and and that is usually my metrics in terms of where I show up and so this is one of those projects where I hold near and dear. I haven't grown up here in the city of Boston and and being a Latina it gives me great joy to see immigrant own businesses really thriving in our communities and so I'm coming here to just state my full support for Greedon Bamboda's application to the Sony board of appeals to construct a front addition to that will accommodate and enhance takeout service and that will also provide them an opportunity to actually serve more people and if you serve more people then you're making more money and then everybody wins y'all okay let's just let's just keep it like that and this Greedon Bamboda has been a beloved cultural and culinary institution in our community known for its authentic Dominican cuisine and vibrant atmosphere it has served more than just a restaurant a restaurant it is a hub for families neighbors and visitors are like this proposed addition is thoughtful and timely response to the evolving consumer needs and the changing nature of the food service industry especially as more customers see convenient takeout options the proposed expansion will not only support the restaurants continued growth and stability but also contribute to the vibrancy of our neighborhoods especially supporting our small business economy Greedon Bamboda investment in this project reflects their commitment to remaining active responsive and and innovative business that meets the needs of both local residents and Boston broader dining community I urge the Sony board of appeals to approve this proposal and allow Greedon Bamboda to continue strengthening its service model while preserving the cultural economic vitality it brings to our city and I feel like I've been listening so I think I showed up on a really good day because most of the projects have been approved so I'm just going to manifest that this one will too because we're on a roll here today thank you for your service thank you counselor counselor Peppin hey everyone you got two counselors for this one so for the record my name is Enrique Peppin under district five Boston City counselor I have the honor of directly representing this business but also just knowing the business owners and what this business meets the community I would like to go on record in support of this just because I know that they've been working on this for a few years now they've been going back and forth with the community about what's the best proposal and all that the owners just have done a very good job of making sure that this business is kept up today it's a beautiful institution and they have amazing food there and on that this addition won't just add and contribute to the community so that's why I'm in support today and I would like for this to be moved forward thank you thank you thank you counselor this is Bambri thank you madam chair madam chair members of the board for the record my name is Jeremy Bambri I'm the browser and they'll community engagement specialist for the office of maintenance services the applicant has completed the community process which consisted of two of us meetings facilitated on October 22nd of 2024 in March 13th of 2025 the first of what is meeting regarding extension of hours in an addition but takeout that was heavily opposed with the but its voicing issue is multiple times regarding the noise level other concerns were parking loitering and increased trash around the property the second meeting was held with the removal of the extension of hours and proposing only the addition to a company takeout again about its voiceoff position regarding takeout feeling the addition would not adjust the parking concerns but will make the issue worse other about its voice they neutral position next the proposal was not required to present to a civic association and to date we have received four letters of opposition maintained in the opposing theme regarding noise and park thank you for your time in the mayor's office of new board services we'd like to defer to the board thank you thank you we have one hand raised Jonathan pain Mr. Pain can you are you able to speak yes apologies we are ready for the next agenda item to no okay gotcha all right thank you any other questions from the board oh from the board only okay see that's why I don't show up in places because I think I can speak more than once let me be quite I did have a question but I'm going to not be disruptive sorry no problem any other questions from the board would that may I have a motion madam chair I'd like to put forward a motion of approval for the project is there a second yeah mr. Stembridge uh that would be yes better brazo yes chair votes yes the motion carries good luck thank you thank you everybody bye thank you next we have case b o a 1682527 the address of 56 will street the applicant and all their representatives of the president please fly through the board yes my name is Larry Warren so I'm the owners rep and john if you will unmute yourself and introduce yourself john pain is the owner hello i'm Jonathan pain and i'm jane calina and we are the owners of 56 wellows street and i can just give a brief introduction and then handed over to Larry to describe the project we moved to 56 willows street in west rock spary three years ago we recently welcomed our daughter cela into the family and you might hear her in the background she's very happily eating dinner now uh and uh we uh love our home we love our neighborhood we love to raise our family here in west rock spary and we are planning or hoping to add living space to our current home um to the second floor unit to add approximately a nine hundred square feet uh so that we can stay here and have space to raise our family and um so we are located just one block from center street near roach brothers the grocery store and the highland street commuter train station and i believe there might be some uh some photos or something that we could show in the deck but i think at that point i'd be happy to hand this over to Larry you can get described that project in more detail okay um there there is there a presentation chair dang um we gave one and we're not seeing we submitted one we're not seeing it but i'm happy to talk without it uh what we have in front of us is what i think is what was submitted okay i actually don't see it on the screen but that's okay i'm just going to kind of talk through it and i'm going to go quickly there's a lot we there's a number of photos in here and we don't really need to dwell on them um i think the bottom line here is that all of the four violations that are cited um our pre-existing conditions really in two cases you in one case you very clearly could argue that it's an extension of the far um it already was an in violation of that but we will make that we will be extending that and it is an extension of a two family use which is a forbidden use the relevant thing to say here is the house built in 1911 and if you're seeing images there then you will see the original building permit it was built as a two family home the setbacks are actually shown on that permit so the three foot setback from one of the side property lines existed in 1911 which redates the zoning code none of that is going to change again really the only thing that is being extended is it will be further in violation of the far um we if you are seeing images then hopefully you see a photograph of willow street most of the other houses on this block also are two family homes also built before the zoning ordinance and in a number of instances have done what what uh john and jane are proposing to do here which is expand the second floor unit by adding dormers um at this what that is really what will be visible from the outside a dormer on both sides of the roof the north east side and the south east excuse me the northwest side and the southeast side um hopefully board members will be seeing both the best shot that we could take of the sides of the house and then the architecture line of the new elevation with the dormers um as far as parking is concerned nothing is changing um there is existing parking in the back of the house uh and i think the only other thing that i want to mention is which will aren't the representative from the neighborhood liaison is going to explain in detail but we went through the community process um and really the only comment was uh one neighbor showing up from cross street in support great thank you you're welcome any questions from the board hearing none will take public testimony yes madam chair members of the board conneranement with the mayor's office of neighborhood services the time of mayor's office would defer to the judge and this board some back information in the community process as you heard from the outings representation the butters meeting is held no concerns were raised in that meeting they went on to meet with the west rock spare and neighborhood council which was supportive of this proposal weren't aware of any concerns at this time with that will refer to the board thank you no other hands thank you thank you with that may i have a motion madam chair i'd like to look for a motion of approval may i have a second thank you mr. steembridge yes miss better raza yes chair votes yes the motion carries good luck thank you thank you everyone see some of you next week handsome yourwiive i can i have a nice words