 you Good morning, the city of Bostonzzo Nebraska. the work of highway the original Alleeeeee constitution itself. of Governor Baker's suspending certain provisions there all due to the ongoing public health crisis. The hearing of the board is being held remotely via the WebEx event platform. This hearing is also being live streamed. In order to ensure this hearing of the board is open to the public, members of the public may access this hearing through telephone and video conferencing. The information for connecting to this hearing is listed on today's hearing agenda, which is posted on the public notice page of the city's website, loston.gov. Members of the public will enter the virtual hearing as attendees, which means you will not see yourself on the screen and you will be muted throughout unless administratively unmuted when asked to comment. As with our in-person meetings, comments and support will be followed by comments and opposition. The order of comments is as follows. Elected officials, representatives of elected officials, and members of the public. Number of people call the prompt to offer comment and the time for commenting will be loaded by the chair as time constraints require. For that reason, the board prefers to hear from members of the public who are most impacted by a project. That is those individuals who live closest to the project. If you wish to comment on the peel, please collect the raise your hand icon in the application via the WebEx to that platform. To raise your hand, click the participant information icon. From there, find your name and on the lower right hand side, you should see a hand raising ISO. Click the icon and your hand will be virtually raised. Click it again and your hand should go down. If you are connected to the hearing by telephone, please press star three to raise your hand. Those called upon the comment will be asked to state their name and address first and then can provide their comment. In the interest of time and to ensure that you have enough time to do so, please raise your hand as soon as Mr. Fortune reads the address into the record. I will repeat these instructions throughout the hearing. Okay, and now I want to take a roll call of the board members. Mr. Fortune. Hey, Mr. Chair. Mr. Jero. Hey, Mr. Chair. Mr. Robinson. Good morning. Ms. Dung. Good morning, Mr. Chair. Mr. Kidell. Good morning, Mr. Chair. Ms. Low. Good morning, Mr. Chair. Looks like we are all here. I'm glad to see that. Mr. Fortune, you now begin with the call of the list. Thank you, Mr. Chair. The first owner of business is the approval of the hearing minutes from September 29, 2020. October 20, 2020, November 17, 2020. March 3rd of 2021, in April 6th of 2021, we need to hold it. I'll motion approve of the minutes. I'll second that motion. All those in favor? All opposed? Motion carries. On the first case for extension, calling B-O-A-A-3-6-6-6-6-03-Doychester Avenue. Mr. Chair, this did expire while it didn't expire on August 23, 2020. This would be the first extension of food granted. Name and address for the record, please. Mr. Arantino. Sorry. Good morning. My name is Steve Singer. I'm an attorney from Wakefield, Mass. I'll be on behalf of the owner of petitioner, 613.ab LLC. Why are you seeking exception, Mr. Singer? Okay. My clients purchased this property in August of 2020. At the time, the previous owner had sought to obtain a zoning relief, which is the extension that we're seeking at the present time. And due to the pandemic under the governor's executive order, that permit has been the running of that permit has been a toll. In addition, the former owner had sought approvals from the Boston Redevelopment Authority. And that was being done actually after this board had voted to approve the variance. That actually took additional time and wasn't actually done until May of 2020. Okay. Mr. Singer, Mr. Fortune, did you say that this expired in August of 2020? That's correct. August. Yes, sorry. Okay. Mr. Singer, generally, we are reluctant to grant extensions when they've been expired for as long as this one has. Is there a reason why you didn't come before this board since last August when your clients had purchased the property? Well, I can't say that I personally was involved with that at that time. My clients were not a winner. That the permits had expired. And thought that the permits were still in effect. They had bought the property as permitted. And so again, not aware that the permit had expired. Okay. I mean, given the extreme nature of the pandemic, I think we tend to be a little bit more blacks on these issues that we have in the past. In the future, I would not recommend coming to this board with something that is an extension request for something expired that long ago. But in this case, can I have a motion please? So I'd like to make a motion for a two-year extension from the day of expiration. So I would give them until August of 22 to get the work done. Is there a second? Second. All those in favor. Hi. Okay, you have your extension. That's through August of 2022. August 23rd. 23rd. 23rd. Okay. Fine. And I hope at that time you're not coming back. No, no, no. We're in the works and polling permits at the present time. Okay. There you go. Thank you for your time. Calling your next two cases. Calling BLA 8059343, Snelling Place. There's companion case BLA 8059333, Snelling Place. Yeah, Mr. Chair, these expired last week and for a 427 2021. This would be the second extension if we grant it. Name an address for the record please. Mr. Farrula? Mr. Lasnay? Farrula? Farrula? No. Let me see that. I am not. Does anyone on from Snelling Place? Three Snelling? Should we move on, Mr. Fortune? Yeah, I'll come back to those. Clawing the next case. Calling BLA 1035808655Gubstreet. This is just did the board approve this proposal in July of 2020. Name an address for the record please. Morning, Mr. Chairman, members of the board, Richard Lins, 245 Summoner Street, East Boston. This is actually a request for extension to sign the decision, Mr. Secretary. This is obviously within the two years. This involved in a two-family project in East Boston. There was a proviso that actually require the applicant to go back and revisit how these plans were being finalized because of parking. We've been working on that and we think we have a solution. But we were holding the decision pending a resolution to that issue for the proviso. So we respectfully requesting that the time to sign the decision be extended so that the board can go ahead and file that. Okay, so you're planning on coming back to the board with an updated plan? That is correct, but in order to do that, Mr. Chairman, we do need the decision finalized. Okay, when we made the proviso to hold signature, was there a time frame set on it? No, I don't believe that was the case. What we were doing is the order included a proviso regarding the number required parking spaces. We were requesting relief to only have one parking space in relation with respect to this project. It was almost not workable to have the two spaces, but we have come up with a solution. It has been an amendment file, but in order for us to process the amendment, the decision needs to be finalized. Okay, so I mean, the approval was granted July 2020, which means it was good for two years, right? That's correct. So you want the proviso on the signature to extend to that same period of time? No, but under the enabling act, the board has 98s to sign its decision. My experience has been historically when the delay in the signing has occurred, the board has for good cause just voted to extend that time. I understand that. The question is what period of time would you need? Because you'll have to schedule an up here before the board. So there's a decision pending for this approval that is with legal in order to be signed. It's just my understanding is it could not be signed because more than 90 days allow. So we just need the decision signed. I assume 30 days to get the decision signed would be sufficient. Okay, very good. Can I have a motion, please? Mr. Hary, will you undo it? For a 60 day extension. I'll second that motion. Okay, so the motion is to grant a 60 day extension on the signing, all those in favor. I can't oppose. You're all set. Thank you. Following an excuse, calling BOA102-922-1837 Saratoga Street. This is a similar to the Board of Proof of the Proposal in January 26th at 2021. Name and address, full of record please. Morning, Mr. Chair, members of the Board, Richard Lens 245 Summars Street, East Boston on behalf of the petitioner. Mr. Chairman, similar situation, this is actually approved by the Board on January 26th. We did get the decision drafted. It appeared that it would not make the 90 days. And therefore we're requesting we probably 30 days additional to get the decision signed. Do I keep can I have a motion? Motion for our 60 day extension. Second. All those in favor. Okay. I oppose. Motion carries. Thank you. Following the next 10 cases, calling BOA83450-698 Magnolia Street. Case BOA834-511-100 Magnolia Street. BOA834-505-729-Sailon Street. Case BOA834-501-170 Magnolia Street. Case BOA834-4542-162 Magnolia Street. Case BOA834-493-164 Magnolia Street. Case BOA834-56-825-345-345-345-329-23 Magnolia Street. Case BOA834-541-4-Chamble Street. In case BOA834-537-7-Tap Moonstreet. Mr. Chair, these decisions are all expired on 1019 October 19 for 2020. This would be their first extension if we granted. Name of the address for the record place. Hi, my name is Kendra Roe. I am the proponent. My address is 58 Union Street Brighton. All right. Why do you need an extension in all these cases? So, working with the Department of Neighborhood Development on these affordable housing buildings, and when I was due to get my funding approved of March of last year, is when the pandemic hit pretty hard, and my lender at that time had requested an extension to provide the commitment letter, and so throughout the course of last year and last summer waiting on the letter was not forthcoming from the lender, so I had to switch gears to go to another funding source. So we've been delayed and acquiring funding due to COVID-related matters. I'm sorry, good. Mr. Fortune, you said it was October 19, 2020 that expired? That's correct. The Pitha First and Prudals in 2018, 2020, they would have expired due to the pandemic, obviously. Okay. So, kind of to the applicant, is there given that expired in October last year, is there a reason you haven't come before the board sooner? The funding situation was up in the air for a little while, but we are actually closing on six of these properties on Monday. Okay, well again, typically what we like to see is that the expiration date near is that you come and request an extension, and if there is a reasonable explanation for it, we will grant it. We don't like to do it after the fact that so many months, but again, the pandemic has created a different context, so I will entertain a motion. I have a motion for one year extension. I'll second that motion. And that is Mr. Jero from the date of expiration. Can we use one year from today? One year from today? Yeah, okay, the expiration was up to all right. Right. I told you about 2020 correct. Okay, so you are? I'm sorry. One year from today, and Mr. Forge and Seconded, all in favor. Hi. All in first. Okay, you're all set. Thank you. Okay, calling the next case for hearings, open to pearls or withdrawals, please. If you can give me the address first. 363 Albany Street. Thank you. For the record calling BLA 1134769 363 Albany Street. Name and address for the record, please. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, members of the board, Attorney Jeff Drago, with Drago and Suscana, with an address of 11th Beacon Street. We're here on behalf of the applicant pint street in today. We did get notice from the mayor's office and some of the elected officials that there were some late opposition that had come in, which we believe we address some private meetings with some folks. We would ask today through the deferral. We don't need much time. There was something a bit more in early July than the report. So, wait a minute. That's okay, Mr. Drago. This is for our billboard. It is, Mr. Arle, yes. All right. Can I have a motion, please? Motion for the committee. Get the second in. Okay. Mr. Fortune, what do we have for a day? The earliest day we can get is June 29th. Okay, we'll take that. I'm sorry, I didn't ask for a motion. Motion made in second. I'll motion favor. Aye. Okay, and we have a day for you, Mr. Drago. June 29th, a 20th. Thank you very much. Are there any other deferrals with Drago, or SBIRT 930 address, please? 37 North Square. This is just a building code, correct? Correct. Okay, sir. There's a call that's been put on two seconds. It's going to call in for the record case, BLA. It's 115-295-437 North Square. Name and address for the record, please. Good morning. This is Dennis Quilty, attorney for the applicant. And we would seek to withdraw the building code matter only, leaving the zoning case to be heard this morning. This is a companion case to one the board heard on April 6th, or 33 North Square, which is the immediate next-door space, which we're seeking to combine. Okay, can I have a motion on the building code? Motion I deny building code. Well, second. All in favor? Well, it's okay, Mr. Quilty, you'll take up the case for the zoning. I really think. Thank you, sir. Any other deferrals that withdrawals to 930 only? Mr. Fortune, Mr. Fortune 51, the Lollys Street, please. Will the record filing be available? A 117-1375-51 Lollys Street. Name and address for the record, please. Morning, Chairman, members of the board. My name is George Moranse. I'm an attorney with the business address of 350 West Broadway and South Boston. I'm here on the behalf of Tim Johnson. Mr. Johnson could not be here today. He asked me to request a deferral in this matter. And what's the reason for that deferral? From what I was told by Mr. Johnson, I believe he and his client feel that they probably need to do some more work with the neighborhood. Okay. All right, Mr. Moranse. Well, the bit of a plural. This is Aaron, Mr. Moranse. Can I just check in? Because I believe this case actually has a basement unit and a headhouse as part of the submission. Is that something that you're looking at with your client? I'm not aware. I just spoke with Mr. Johnson as I say, couldn't be here and ask if I was here if I could defer the matter. I'm not involved at this point. I don't know whether that will change, but I guess I can all say is unaware of those facts, Mr. Robinson. Okay. Well, maybe you can relay that information back to Mr. Johnson. Absolutely. Thank you. I'll make them absolutely to support. Okay, so we have a motion to defer a zero second. All those in favor. Well, opposed and Mr. Moranse please communicate, Mr. Robinson's concerns, Mr. Johnson. Certainly. What is the date, please? You have a date of July 13th at 1230. Thank you very much. Well, are there any other deferrals with royals tonight, 30 only? Mr. Chair, we do have a case. I don't know if 4160 to 4164 Washington Street. They've been asked to defer due to the plans examined to review the plans. Is there anyone here to make their case? Mr. Rohasson. I'm going to get to that. I will talk about it. Yeah, Mr. Fortiwam, when it comes up, we'll deal with it then, I guess. Okay, I'm going to go back. So we have no other. I'm going to go back to the extensions to give Mr. for a little time to get on. Does anybody are from selling place? I have any raised hands or? Mr. Fortiwam. I'm sorry, Mr. Chair. I just received a message from Mr. Frollo who's in my office that he cannot get on. I had sent him a message that the case had been called asking him to log on. He just responded that he couldn't for some reason. Mr. Kuhn. He's really just checking on. Okay. Mr. Fee, could he be put out at the end of the day? Or are you still on the word? What else to ask? Why don't we call it again at the end of the 930 hearings. Okay, thank you so much. Alright, calling the first case tonight. Mr. Quilty, will you get out the Mr. Fee? I will right now, yes. Right? Thank you. Calling the first case for 930, calling BLA 1160871297 Maverick Street. The sister of 8 existing three-failee dwelling constructed rear addition would rear decks and roof decks and extend partial living space to the basement. The violation of Article 27T-5, this is in the East Boston iPod. Article 53 Section 52, Roo Structure Restriction. Article 53 Section 9, the Floyd A ratio is excessive. Article 53 Section 9, the bill in high is excessive at speed. Article 53 Section 9, the side yard is insufficient. And Article 53 Section 9, the rear yard is insufficient. Amen, add just for the record plates. Good morning, Mr. Chairman, members of the board, Richard Lins, 245 Sumner Street East Boston. On behalf of the petitioner, we may have, I believe, some of the architect teams as well, but I can walk through the presentation briefly. This is a free existing three-failee dwelling located at Jeffery's Point neighborhood. Proposal would be for a complete renovation of the entire building, proposing a rear addition and extending partial living space only to the rear portion of the building itself. That lower level would be used in conjunction with level one, so it's not intended to be separately dependent unit. As you can see here, this is a very typical triple-decker along Maverick Street. And I believe we do have some rendering showing what the proposed changes would be to the exterior. Just as we're scrolling through that, the unit sizes will be relatively generous for this area, arranging for about 1200 square feet up to about 16-hz square feet total. These are intended to be two-plus bedroom, three-bedroom units. And again, this will involve a complete rehab and rehabilitation of the existing structure. Because this is located at three-f-2000 district, the use, which is already pre-existing as in a lot of use, for relief, we're requesting a rear yard setback variance, which will allow us to reduce the setback to 20 feet required as 30 in the district. Our interior ratio would be increased to a 1.81, where 1.0 is allowed. We are cited for height, Mr. Chairman, but I believe that has to do with the headhouse that was originally included in the plan. Obviously, we will not intend to complete the headhouse. There is no requirement, because this is a three-story building we would not even require a building code relief. So we anticipate a modification to remove that headhouse ancient junction with the use of that roofed. Last but not least is the side-mere, the existing conditions are pretty much going to remain. We are proposing the addition to keep the same plane of the sides of the building as shown here on the plan. I'm happy to answer any questions in the board. Okay. Well, I'll ask you the obvious question. So do the plans currently show any help? They do. And again, we typically, when these are filed, the architect files these to be, at least intended to be compliant with the building code. In this particular case, we've informed them that headhouse is not likely to be supported by the board, and our client has no issue with removing the headhouse. Okay. And the second question is, has to do with basement living space. I think I looked at an elevation. What is your understanding? The dimension between the floor of the basement and the grate? There is a section. Mr. Chairman included, I believe it shows nine feet from the grate to the ceiling. And the portion of the area that's being proposed to be. Well, it shows nine feet to the ceiling, but I believe it only shows four foot four to the floor of the basement to grate. Oh, I see. I apologize. I'm sorry for the question. Yeah, I believe it's 4.1, 4.9 foot total. All right. How are the plans, Mr. Robinson? Four four doesn't seem to be, seems to be a little bit of a concern. Yeah. You're correct. The plans are good. I do show the basement unit. It is connected to the main floor unit, so it is not a separate unit. So it does have an internal access there, but it does have a window well indicated. Okay. And is Jeff Hampton, are you there? I didn't do you in the roll call. Good morning, Mr. Chair. Yeah, we have, we've recommended that I believe it's full of all what designed for you. That the basement space eliminated and that we do design review. The basement space we've made altogether or bedroom living space eliminated? I mean, it says eliminated altogether. I know you guys are very particular about the bedroom space that hasn't filtered down to the planers yet. So we have. I'll go with the board. I know how the board is with bedrooms. Okay. Mr. Chair, if I may, on the last three matters, I believe the board in these instances include a provider that it not be bedroom space, but have no issue with it. Providing that as a reference. Yeah, Mr. Landel's correct. That's the posture that we have taken pretty good. Yeah, and I would never problem with that. I know, Mr. Chair. Okay. All right. And Mr. Robinson, any other comments about the plans? Okay. They're good. All right. Is there anyone here to speak in favor of the proposal? Good morning, Mr. Chair and members of the board, Lena Trameling with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. We would like to welcome the support for this proposal. During the community process, this proposal receives strong support from Gulf Street Citizens Association and from a virus. Thank you. Good morning, Mr. Chair and members of the board, Ricardo Patron from the Office of City Council, Lydia Edwards. The Council would also like to go on the record and support. Good morning, Mr. Chair and members of the board. Karen Foley, Councilor Savi, Georgia's Office would like to go on record and support. Thank you. Is there anyone here to speak in opposition? Mr. Chair, I have no raised hands. No raised hands. Mr. Chair, we have one letter of support. Okay. Thank you, Mr. Fortune. Can I have a motion, please? Motion will approve with the proviso that there's no bedroom in the basement and BPA designer here. All right. And the headhouse speed change. Oh, and the headhouse. Yeah. And the headhouse speed change to a hatch. Second. All those in favor. Aye. Aye. All those opposed. Okay. Motion carries. Going to next. Going to next. Case calling. Deal. One one four five nine four one two 12 Chelsea Street. This is a change of arts from a two family dwelling to a three family dwelling. Renovations in addition of a new fourth story on an existing three story building. The violations article 2017 dash five. This is the East Box and the report. Article 53 section. I the lot of area for additional dwelling units in sufficient. Article 53 section nine. The flow day ratio is excessive. Article 53 section nine. The building height is excessive. Article 53 section nine. The bill and height number of stories is excessive. Article 53 section nine. The usable open space is insufficient. Article 53 section nine. The site at is insufficient. Article 53 section 52. Room structure restriction. Article 53 section 56. Post reparking is insufficient. Name and address for the record please. Morning Mr. Chairman members of the board Richard lands 245 Summars Street East Boston behalf of the petitioner Mr. Count Logan. With me is our exact reason was the project architect real briefly Mr. Chairman this is a pre existing two family dwelling located in a three F 2000 district so the proposed change from a two to a three is allowed use. We are proposing complete rehabilitation of the existing structure as well as a vertical addition that would combine the third level with the new fourth level for unit three. The existing unit sizes of our units one and two for first and second level are just over 575 square feet again that's a pre distinct condition. Those are currently two bedrooms and will continue to will remain as two bedrooms. The unit three size with the addition would be about 11 out of square feet that's proposed also to be a two plus bedroom with respect to the violations that were cited the lot area for additional dwelling unit being insufficient 3000 square feet would be required. This property is a little over 2100 square feet total because it is a shallow lot. The height of our building would be four stories with the addition at 0.2 feet which is 7.2 feet above the allowable height limit. We are proposing about 900 or so square feet of open space which would seem to be conforming but we were cited for it by ISD. I feel that the look at the cyclan would show that there's problem and sufficient usable open space for this change. This building was previously a three family change to a two so this proposal simply would change it back to prior use with respect to the parking because it is illegal to the proposed change to a three would require one additional parking space under Article 53 and only for the proposed new units. We believe that adding a curb cut at this site would be more detrimental to the parking situation on Chelsea Street and therefore we're asking really for that. And last but not least is the iPod applicability. Can we answer questions? Okay so the parking you're simply there's no additional parking for proposing no parking correct. Okay. There's only one. Okay. Now let me ask you a question about the height in terms of context. You are going up another story. How can you can we go back to the site context photographs where there how does what Mr. Williams what is that do in terms of the neighborhood context where you'd be hired in the neighboring buildings. There is this section of Chelsea Street Mr. Chairman does have a mix of three story and four story buildings as you get a little bit further up Chelsea on the other side. They're actually a mystery. Mr. Williams in this picture looks like all three story buildings. For act I'm saying if you want to speak up in the other direction they're actually fours and some five story buildings as well. Okay. Mr. Robinson how are the drawings? The plans are good. Okay. And can you do you have a sense of context in terms of height? I mean I feel like I had a question for the BPDI on this. I mean I assume they reviewed it. I in the first glance I generally agree there does seem to be the entire street at the restores with some of them walk up some of them not so they kind of bury a little bit but I assume urban planning is reviewed this and is comfortable with the additional height. They have Mr. Robinson actually our recommendation was for the wood design regardless. Yeah. Okay. Thank you. Okay. Any questions in the board? Is there anyone here to speak on behalf of the proposal? Good morning Mr. Chair and members of the board in a tremendous meeting with the May of the members of the services we would like to want the records for this proposal. During the community process this proposal is if support from Maverick Centre and the Department of Association and from our partners and we also receive two layers of support. Thank you. Good morning Mr. Chikki members of the board. A card of control from the Office of City Council really Edwards is the council would also like to go on the record and support. Good morning Mr. Chair and members of the board Karen Foley councilor Savage George's Office would like to go on record and support. Thank you. Is there anyone here to speak? Mr. Chair we have two letters of support. Okay anyone here to speak in opposition? Mr. Chair we have no raised hands. Okay. Can I have a motion then? I'll make a motion to support with BPD a designer here. Thank you. All those in favor? Aye. All those opposed? Motion carries. Thank you very much. Calling the next case calling BLA 115 295 137 North Square. This is a change of our from retail to one family to restaurant and one family. Expanding existing restaurant at 33 North Square it's a 37 North square for extra seating and install a fire separate into activated fire fire alarm system. The violations at equal 15 for section 12 restaurant use is conditional. Name and address for the record please. Good morning again Mr. Chair Mr. Secretary Dennis Quilty attorney at the building floor representing the restaurant operator and the landlord in this matter as I suggested earlier we have was drawn the building code portion of this and would like to go forward on the zoning. This is a companion case who won the board heard on April 6th and unfortunately due to a scheduling mix up 33 and 37 got separated somewhere along the line. So we're only able to hear 33 on April 6th. We should have had 33 and 37 together and that was corrected. We're back before you today on a 37 portion of this and as the Secretary suggested it's an expansion of a grand total of 275 square feet of space in 37 to connect eventually to 33 for expanded restaurant purposes. We have gone through a full community review with the two neighborhood groups Nora and Nunick. Those are butters meeting we've had no objections heard of and as the board suggested on the April 6th hearing we will take the building code matters to the state for their further review. So we're here today hoping that the condition used of the restaurant expansion will be allowed. The restaurant operator Mr. Trata is with us this morning the restaurant is forsello which is a extremely popular well-run restaurant which has been in this site the last couple of years prior to that it housed a restaurant in this Carmen so the site has been a restaurant operation for probably 25 years and interestingly this the 275 feet has been vacant for about 20 years. So hope this bring back a viable use to that that that's phone space. Thank you. I'm happy to answer any questions. Okay. So I realize that you're not asking building code relief so what you've chosen to do it's not that the proposal has changed is that you as with the companion case earlier you intend to take it to the state board correct. Yes sir correct that is we actually advised to do so at our April 6th meeting and we yes and we're perfectly happy to do that. I want to connect both of them together at the same time. Okay but the proposal is is unchanged with the direction. Correct the actual proposal is the use of the 275 square feet at 37. Yes correct. Okay so I mean we're not hearing that anyway but I'm just curious. All right and then on another non-zoning issue how is the restaurant done in terms of surviving the pandemic? Well Mr. Trata is a very hard working person. I mean the restaurant is spectacular you should try it but he's in a very nice outdoor area and the city of course has been very generous in terms of utilizing portions of North Square. So as we get into the warmer weather months he'll be able to stay afloat but it's not a big deal. It's obviously the bulk of the year that's not pleasant enough to be outside of this extra space will help him quite a bit. Okay very good. How are the plans Mr Robinson? The plans are fine. I mean it seems pretty straightforward. Yeah. Any questions on the board? Is there anyone here to speak on behalf of the proposal? Mr. Chair and members of the board this is John Romano in the Mayor's Office of the Weather Services at this time I'd like to go on record and support as they've received a lot of support from the community both from the community organizations and the players. Thank you. Good morning Mr. Chair and members of the board. Ricardo Patron from the Office of City Councilor Lydia Edwards the council would also like to go on the record. Good morning Mr. Chair and members of the board Karen Foley Councilor Saby George's office would like to go on record and support. Thank you. Mr. Chair I have no raised hands. Okay then there's no any more opposition Mr. Fortune? No Mr. Chair I will do as a matter of chair in the past if I have anything I definitely weigh in. Thank you. Thank you. Okay I can have a motion then. I'll prove. Second. All those in favor? Aye. All those opposed. All right good luck. And maybe we'll continue. Thank you. The following next case calling the away 1162927296 to 3122 Cambridge Street. This is a change of art from the spinning studio to restaurant the renovation of the existing 3361 square ground floor space. There will be no internal or external structural changes but will promote the facade change. The violation of Article 8 section 7, the restaurant use is conditional. They may not just for the record please. I don't see any raised hands here. The applicant I'm not sure if they're on. Is this sweet green anybody from sweet green? Yes, your family bar. Director of real estate. And I believe our time should be on. On. Are you on? Can you can you start walking a student proposal? Tom can you speak? Tom and the Tom Clemens. No, Tom Miller. I see him. He's there but. Okay. I'm sorry. Tom's muted. Tom can you hear us? You can hear you. Here's no. Now. Yeah. Okay. I'm sorry. I don't know what happened there. I apologize. Okay. Can you tell us about the proposal please? I apologize. Tom Miller. I'm joined by Steven. You heard from Pamela Haver from sweet green. We're here before you today because sweet green is planning on opening a restaurant on Cambridge Street. It is an L to 65 zoning sub district which means the restaurant requires a conditional use permit. We propose to occupy a former spin studio or but will provide healthy seasonal high quality food to the surrounding. Beacon of community from scratch kitchen using fresh and local ingredients. This is located in the commercial section of Cambridge Street. It will provide those healthy options for residents, visitors and employees of the area in a way that is not currently available. The project has been designed to limit the impact of any orders emanating from the kitchen by venting through the room, scheduling deliveries and trash pickups so as not to interfere with the traffic on the neighbor street. Trash is planning on being stored internally until time to pick up and then will be the bins will be returned immediately after. Inside. The space itself has been designed in a thoughtful way or reflect the surrounding community, the environment and based on their experience, operating in locations throughout Boston and nationally. During the community outreach, brought us this great list of concerns of the butters and made reasonable efforts to address them. One of the main concerns has been the use of the door on strong place as a. It's been there since the building was designed. We are. We have included in our design, adding temporary planters to direct. Patrons entering and exiting through that door directly to and from Cambridge Street. Additionally, um, sweet green is looking forward to working with the neighbors to address other concerns regarding parking and access to strong place, immediately embodying the restaurant. The addition of sweet green to this location on Cambridge Street will not adversely affect the begin hill community. It will not cause a serious hazard to vehicles or pedestrians will not create and will not create inductions. So, sweet green is looking forward to joining the begin hill community and being part of the neighborhood. Okay. So we'll be take out of the sweet greens. Yes, take out is part of part of their restaurant model, but it is less than, I believe it's less than half of their orders. Okay. Okay. But, um, and I know that I mean, sweet greens has been around. So I know they're familiar with all the various take up procedures in the city of Boston. They aren't. Okay. Um, this, uh, can we, uh, can you bring the rendering up for the facade? Sorry, this is Dan Haver from sweet green and I just put in the chat. I'm going to ask you a question. I'm going to ask you a question. Are there any other questions that you may have on our on, but I'm unable to be unmuted. So if you could please unmute them and who? Okay. What will the hours of operation be? Yeah, with the post hours are 11 a.m. to 11 p.m. Seven days a week. Seven days a week. Okay. Um, how are the drawings, Mr Robinson? Drums are good. Yeah. We're going from a spinning studio where you lose weight to a restaurant where you might gain weight, but uh, give us. We give us time. I don't think that's a problem. Not with, uh, not with secreting to model you, unless you're eating there, you know, large portions. All right. Um, any questions in the board? Uh, is there anyone here to speak in favor of the proposal? Good morning, Mr Chair. I'm Mr. Robinson, the board. Joe Coppin, Dr. Mayor's office, the neighborhood services. We would like to go on record and support it. This proposal. Thank you. Mr. Chair, Secretary of one letter of support. Excuse me. I thought Councillor Bock was going to speak. This is Karen Foley, Councillor Saby, George's office. We'd like to go on record and support this project. Thank you. Is there anyone here from Councilor Ex office? Emily Reid who's basically looking at students at Bycoph. We're helping Emily Reid. After we go on record and they go on record in opposition. Was was there an agreement that was offered that they did not sign. that they did not sign us that we couldn't quite hear what you said. So. Yes. That's a question for the council's office. Yes. To our knowledge, the beacon host of the CSA commission presented a good neighbor agreement to which, um, sweet green and BHA were not able to come to resolution at this point on a particular matter of the day. So, the emergency emergency is turning aside entrance to which the neighborhood would like to see that used as emergency exit only. Okay. Is there any any other testimony in either in favor of opposition? Yes. Great. Great. Okay. What's the next time what? Climbers. Climbers. Yes. Is it a part of your development team? He had said that you know to the residents of St. Place last night, letting us know that he was drawn. Support the proposal and, um, that's really. Let me just say we don't have time. Can you hear us? Can you state your name and address for the record? And you hear me? Yes. I can hear you now. Can you state your name and address, please? I, Tom Clemen, seven Goodwin place, Beacon Hill and the Co-Chair of the Zoning Committee of the Beacon Hill Civic Association. Okay. We had, uh, had extensive discussions with the applicant. Uh, for the most part, uh, the applicant has been very cooperative. And, uh, on some of the matters that are sort of undefined, uh, as such as trash picked up hours and things of that sort has agreed to, uh, make every effort to be cooperative without being specific at this point. But the big issue is the side door on the strong place, strong place is a small residential lane next to the building. Uh, this door, uh, in the past has never been used as a regular entrance or exit. Uh, only, uh, for emergency use, uh, the pedestrian, uh, passage into strong place passes along that side of the building. It's recently been blocked by a car, which, uh, was parked there for some reason, but, uh, that forces residents to walk into the traveled part of a strong place. Uh, also, uh, this street, this part of Cambridge Street is highly impacted by traffic because they're, uh, are turning lanes for the hospital. Uh, and, uh, if the traffic is backed up in Cambridge Street at all, uh, the, it backs up into the intersection, uh, prevents ambulances from getting into the hospital. So the fact that this is a high takeout use, uh, with, uh, app driven pickup by door dash type, uh, delivery services and other people who can stop in, uh, makes it a very sensitive use in this location. Uh, so the problem of potential double parking in front and cars pulling into or parking in front of strong place, uh, when residents are trying to enter or exit, uh, uh, poses a hat hazard to pedestrians on the sidewalk trying to pass. Mr. Clem, Mr. Clem, thank you. I think we've, we've got, we've got your point or two points. Uh, one is the issue of the door on strong place and the others, a question of parking and double parking for pickup. Uh, Mr Robinson, um, well, can you tell from the drawings whether that, that door on strong place is required as a second means of egress? Uh, is that white's there? Uh, uh, and is there an alternative? Well, I guess I have one other question. I'm not sure I shall rely on the architect of record for that, but it looks like it might be needed for egress, but there's also a pickup window shown on the side that's even further up strong place. Is that, um, in opposition for the. I believe you, you present the wrong. I don't know how, but this is the wrong. That's all longer part of the proposal. Yeah. So the, so the pickup window on strong place has been removed, um, it's shown on the drawings, but, um, okay. That is correct. And that door that we've been talking about is, is four feet from Cambridge Street. It is just just at the corner of the building, just so that the board is aware that it's, it's not, you know, it's not a great distance up Cambridge Street. We're, you know, we've been talking with the community, talking with Tom Clemens and Beacon Hill. We are more than willing to work with the residents of strong place to alleviate any concerns they have and prevent parking at the base of strong place to the extent that we can support in PIC process to correct something that would be feasible for them and lay those concerns. And we're also working with the landlord to prevent parking of cars in that space that Tom Clemens referenced. That door was there when it was a spinning studio, correct? It is. Yes. It's been there. I believe was built with the building. Okay. And, and most of you, do you have any way of knowing how much it was used during the time that tenure at the spinning studio? I don't know what they're using. This is a Brett Mitchell five strong place. That door has been not used at all as a result of the spinning studios operations. It was, uh, you did it to us. Thank you very much. Okay. Any other questions in the board? All right. Can I have a motion, please? I think a motion to approve with the proviso that the side entrance on strong place only be used for emergency years. Can we also have language regarding second and usual take out language and usual take out language and BPD a designer for the side improvement of this applicant only this applicant only. Okay. I'll second that all those in favor. All opposed. Party. Oh, okay. Sorry. All right. The motion passes. Thank you. Call in the next case calling B O A 100 9 416 25 Dorchester Street. This is adding a 20 foot by 25 foot private roof deck. So the sole use of unit three only the violation that equals 68 section 29. Roof隠� restrictions. Name and address for the record please. I'm Mr. Chairman and members of the board. My name is Patrick LVD and I'm not on an occupant with 25 foot just to street number three proposing a private roof deck. So we for my unit. This is my second time here at the board of appeals. I came in February 2019. There's an issue with the zoning for two family. Tagarin, which is since it's fixed and I'm now obviously living in the three family. There have been some of those concerns in the past with unit two and. I have taken some measures to alleviate these concerns. The owner of the unit to my building is updated. It's a agreement. Specifically state that his tenants do not or will not have access to my private roof check and that they have to comply with all the city knows or do it's also. There are more than 43 of others in the immediate area that have signed off. I'm going to go to the community support. Just describe the project. Please. So if you scroll down to the photos, I just want to continue this back staircase and up on the back and can and build the roof roof deck on the top and that the plans are below. Okay. So just a little confused by the initial presentation. You own the building as a whole. Are you own unit three? I only own unit three and there just happened some of the better concerns in the past about unit two. Okay. Okay. So you own unit three. The other units are tenants from ask and two landlords. Correct. And I also occupy unit number three. I'm not a occupant. Right. And but you refer to the other. So it's not a condo in the sense that all three. All three people occupy all three occupants are owners. Correct. The unit two is there are tenants there and unit one, which does not have an outdoor space also has tenants. I am an owner occupant on the floor. Okay. All right. Very good. And so the access to this proposed roof deck is through a continuation of the staircase. Exterior staircase. Is that correct? Let's go ask. And how big is the roof deck? That's 20 by 25 feet. And originally I wanted to build bigger but speaking with the architect and the city. I had shrunk it down to be within the obviously within the city limits. Based on the drawing in front of us, I'm not sure how much bigger you could have built it. Yeah. I think on the top part I could have gone at at least from five feet from the front of the door chest was free. So I think it was about an extra hundred five hundred square feet smaller than I can. Okay. One of those two rectangles in the top left of the door. Those are air conditioning units. So you couldn't have. So you could have gone much further. They could have been moved to the right as well. We're in front right now. They're staying in the middle of the deck and there will need to be moved to. Okay. Okay. How are the drawings Mr Robinson? The drawings are fine. Okay. All right. Is there anyone any questions on the board? Anyone here to speak on behalf of the proponent? If I could just make one comment. No, we're taking public testimony now. Thank you. Mr. Chair, members of the board, Haley Donner's Office, Neighbor Services, like to go back in an opposition of this proposal. And I would like to say that the Boston Police Department also wrote a letter in opposition. Thank you. And can you explain the basis of the opposition, please? Just I don't want to say it's a problem property, but just based on the amount of calls that BPD has made and all the complaints in my office has had at this building with like to go back in an opposition. Okay, but again, I'm just trying to understand because this roof deck is not yet built. So the opposition is based on Robinson. On the behavior of the people who have there the past three years. There's like an animal one call to this. Okay. In all three address every weekend. In all three units? I don't know, but I can check with BPD and see which ones they are. Okay. Thank you. Anybody else? Good morning. The chairman members of the board and I can let him from councilor Flint's office. The councilor would like to go and record an opposition to this roof deck based on feedback from neighbors and about us. Please know neighbors have to go into councilor fling about having to call 911 many times to allow noise from huge parties at all hours. Many have many have reading emails and expressed that the last thing they would like to see is a roof deck at this address which has become a problem property for the neighbors. Councilor fling would like to oppose based on the negative impacts that will have on loud noise for neighbors which will only as as carway the current quality of life issues. They are they are experiencing. Thank you. Let me ask you the same question I asked the mayor's office. We have one owner occupant in two tenants in the building is have the problems been in up without three units or one or two or three of them, do you know? Well, when people reach out to us they reach out to us on 25 gochester street. And when they reach out to us it was when the roof there was proposed so I will assume it's from this unit but I'm not starting. Okay. Thank you. Any other questions morning? Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. We got it. Mr. Chair, I do have two raised hands. Mr. Chair, I'd like to get testimony. I just wanted to put on the record secretary. We do have letters of support and we also have letters of opposition. The opposition is basically the deck. Okay. All right. We have two hands. And you've been in the media. Can you state your name in our displays? Yeah, hi. My name is Pierce Martin. I'm actually speaking on behalf of Senator Collins. We have also received a similar complaint. What's your address for the record, please? Five Douglas Street, Boston, Matt 02127. Go ahead. So our office has also received a number of similar complaints as the one you heard previously by email and call. We're talking about the potential of a roof that being added and as well as the number of 911 calls and complaints about noise parties and that kind of thing. Okay. If someone wants to testify, please have some new information. I think we've gotten that picture pretty clearly. Patricia, are we been unmuted? Can we state your name and address, please? I am Patricia, where I'm going to go. 251 Second Street directly across from this. You know, that's looking for the roof deck. I know would exactly face the roof deck. And there's been more calls on this this address and its property. And it's just a problem property as far as as far as the neighborhood's concerned. I mean, if it's not a if it's not a party, you know, there's, you know, remnants of a party that are all over the area and all over the sidewalk. I just can't see the point of having a 115 square home or unit or condo already having to move on to a 24 square feet about door living and adding another 512 feet of space. I mean, that's okay. Thank you. All right. Thank you very much. Mr. Graham, I know what additional ways can't. Okay. Can I have a motion, please? Is it possible that I could speak and look out to the 43 of the party? Oh, no, no, no. It's an important part that we've hurt you, presented. We heard the testimony and looking for a motion from the board. I'd make a motion for denial. Thank you. All those in favor? All right. Any opposed? Motion carries. Calling the next case. Calling BLA 11644481778 Columbia Road. This is a recti-news-ray of three-family joint-language roof-tack and parking garage. The violation is Article 29, Section 4. This is G-Pod Applicability. Name an address for the record, please. Morning, Madam. Mr. Chairman, members of the board. My name is George Maranci, I'm the attorney with the business address of 350. We're at Broadway in Salt Box, and I represent Kyle and David Gamble. First, Mr. Chairman, it's the clarification for the record. Article 29 isn't a course of violation. It's a compliance requirement under the code. This is a fully-zony compliant application requiring green belt protection over the district to prove. The rule only for new three-story three-family dwelling on an existing vacant lot at 1778 Columbia Road in Salt Box. The relevant zoning sub-district is MFR multifamily residential under Article 68. The three units are three bedroom units of approximately 2400 square feet each. Four off-preparking spaces are required, and five spaces are provided in a below-grade garage access by east-east streets. At the rear of the property, by means of what will be a new standard with curb touch, there will be a roof deck full of the top floor units accessed by means of a hatch. Mr. Chairman, as I mentioned, this is a zoning compliant application requiring green part approval only by the board. And I do wish to know, officially, for the record, and to respectfully remind the board, that the courts have consistently held beginning with the appeals court decision. In case the I-management versus board of appeal of Boston, the green part approval by the board pursuant to Article 29 or it's no more than the imposition of reasonable conditions in connection with the approval of a site plan, typically by means of BPDA design review, and that the board does not have discretionary legal authority to deny a G-File permit. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Moranx, for the legal opinion. So there are no violations outside of the G-File applicability, is that correct? That's correct. Yeah, outside of G-File applicability, which again, I hate to repeat this, all the pages of the state for the record, is not a violation. Correct. Yeah, got it. Okay, thank you. How are the drawings, Mr. Robinson? The drawings are good. Okay, any questions in the board? Is there anyone here to speak on behalf of the proponent? I'm Mr. Chair, members of the board, Haley Dillon, Mears, Office Neighborhood Services, like to our current position of this project, just based on the community feedback and all the letters of opposition my office has received. Thank you. Can you be a little more specific? Yeah, just the building doesn't fit with the character of the neighborhood, and we received over a hundred letters of opposition for this project. So is that a question of design review or a fundamental problem with the very proposal? I would say both, mainly the design review. Okay. Anybody else? Mr. Chair, the secretary, we have 130 signatures opposed to the project. And what's the reason, Mr. Fortune? I can read about two seconds here. The green belt overlay district, three general requirements. Assets in the housing character and surrounding neighborhood in the streets. Okay. Anybody else looking to testify? Sure. I think everything around us, Ana, you've been elevated to a panelist. She might be having some connectivity issues. Ana, can you hear us? She might be having submission. Okay. on this project? Thank you, Mr. Chair. We actually never received a rejection letter from ISD on this project, so we had no idea what the zoning violations were going to be. So we were not able to make a recommendation on this, this particular case. I understand that there is some concern with the design of the property and that is this was something to go forward. I would think extensive design, reviewed to try to keep a character with that block of Columbia Road. I know there is some triple deckers, very nice triple deckers along that that stretch of Columbia Road that I think we try to like to mimic if this were to go forward. Mr. Chair, I do have another hand raised by Halloween. Will Ann, you've been unmuted. Can you state your name and address please to the record? Yes, it's Lou Ann O'Connor. I'm the Chairwoman of the City Point Neighborhood Association. Can you hear me? Yes. Okay, great. Members of the board, the opposition to this is in fact 130 signatures and it is based on roof decks. It is based on the overall design of the building. Columbia Road is made up of beautiful triple deckers and some of them date back to the 18 1900s. roof structures, I mean, it's just a beautiful area and this particular building does not belong in that area. So what we're asking for is denial so that the proponent can take a year, come back to us in the community with another set of plans and so that we can work together. We're not against building on this lot because everybody has the right to do so. What we are against is taking our area out of character. It is along the beach lines, the yacht clubs and Georgian homes. It's just a very beautiful architectural area and we want to keep it that way. Thank you. Thank you for your testimony. Mr. Robinson is... Excuse me, I'm sorry, Mr. Chair. I was waiting for Anna to come on. I see that she just said she can't mute herself but this is Karen from Council of Saudi George's Office and we want to go and record an opposition to this project. It's just... The people in South Boston, including myself, that's just a beautiful area and it... Who knows what's going to happen if they're all going to follow suit but it just doesn't fit in and the people are very opposed to it. Thank you very much. Okay, is that Sonic Elderone able to get on? Mr. Chairman, this is Paul Solve, Councillor Flarey's office. Equing all the sentiments that have already been said and due to the opposition that we've received to our office and that with the design of this project, the Council don't record an opposition. Okay, again, just asking whether Anna is able to get on or unmute herself. Okay, I'm sure. Mr. Chairman, let me just try her. Anna, can you... Yeah, I think she's having some connectivity issues. I can't unmute her either, so I apologize. Okay. Mr. Robinson, is your sense of the outlier design quality... Does that make sense to you? Probably not. I guess I'm probably in opposite opinion of all the negative. The aesthetics are subjective and things are built of their time and I am not one that is mimics historic things. We don't build like that anymore, but the fact that the project is as of right besides the overlay district, I feel like that we need to rely on the proponent and the BPA to resolve the design adequately for this site. Okay, thank you. Excuse me, Mr. Chairman, sounds like Flynn's right here. I just went over to his office. Okay, welcome, Councillor Flynn. Thank you. Thank you, everybody. It's good to be with you. Okay, you wanna go... You wanna move in on 1778 Columbia Road, please. I'm sorry, I was just able to unmute myself. I'm happy to... Cheers. I'm sorry about that. I was having connectivity issues. I will let Councillor Flynn and Anna decide who wants to speak on behalf of your office. Anna, I'll stay on. You can speak, okay? Thank you. Good morning, Mr. Chairman, members of the board. Anna Calderon from Councillor Xlinc, the office, the council would like to own recurring in opposition to this proposal. We have received significant opposition from neighbors and the city point neighborhood association. The neighbors have noted that as this project is keep at applicable, it then for needs to be protected. Protect the green belt and respect the architecture integrity of the surrounding neighborhood. Many have highlighted their concerns regarding the design that this proposal does not align with the character of the community on the south Boston beach line. Moreover, at the at the waters meeting and in the subsequent weeks that have followed, the proponent did not show a willingness or interest to work with the community on a good faith compromise. As every so, as every so, this proposal, this project has garnered more than 130 signatures in opposition and amorphous in this project as well. Thank you. Thank you very much, Anna. Any other, anyone else? Any other raise hands? Madam Ambassador? Mr. Chairman, there are no additional raise hands. Thank you. Okay, and then can I have a more based on what we've heard? Can I have a motion from the board? I'll make a motion to support with BPA designer view and urge the proponent to work with the community on finding satisfactory design. Is there a second to that motion? Okay, hearing them, the motion. I'll make a motion to deny. Mr. Gerard, I might suggest given Mr. Marancies legal lecture about applicability. We might make that to deny without prejudice along with the opportunity to come back. And I would, I would, I would, I would apologize. Is there a second to that? Second. All those in favor. Aye. Aye. All opposed. Aye. Okay, motion passes, Mr. Robinson is in opposition. Following the next case, following BLA 116 1468 14 NS Road. This is building on attached to family on the same law as another attached to family. Combined lots 12 and 14 and as a total of six parking spaces. And in tennis is to create two zoning buildings. A block one at 14 NS. The body of the economic 55 section nine, the minimum lot with requirement is insufficient. Damon Adjuss for the record, please. Good morning, Secretary Attorney Joe Anttie, McDermott, Quilty and Miller, 28th St. St. Boston and Good Morning, Mr. Chair, members of the board. Also with me is the owner developer, Adam Sarbaugh. So I walk through the proposal, Mr. Henry. Yes, sir. And nice to see you this morning. So this is the, I appreciate that the African is called end of the minutes, by the way. In your neighborhood or close to it. So, so 14 NS Road is in the Eglson Square section of Jamaica Plane. What is being proposed, which you'll see here is to construct a new two family structure on in a zoning compliant manner that complies with the underlying use at this section in the neighborhood, which is a 2,000,000, a compliant with height, all of these setbacks, FAR and parking. But we are here because we need relief with respect to the lot with. And if you go back, Madam Ambassador to the site plan, you will see that this is an asymmetrical shaped lot on the survey. It is not a square. It is rectangular. And so the relief is even more narrowly defined in the sense that the code requires a 40 foot lot with. We have that at the front of the site. It will only 2 feet, 7 inches short at the rear. And the building next to us, the 2 family that has been permitted next to us also meets or exceeds that. So it's full, diminimists, but it's also supported by the confines and unique aspects of the property site. So for the proposal, if I can. Excuse me, Mr. Hannah. Can we scroll down to the site plan? Call it. Yes, you can see. So we thought there's an existing curb cut that would get eliminated and a new one in this place. Yeah, so the curb cut becomes the existing becomes a new driveway that will serve. To the left is 12 NS, which is not before you has been granted a permit as a right for a new to family to be constructed. Okay, that's okay. I was to get to the right is 14 NS. Yeah, and that's where there's an existing structure that's being demolished. We got a determination from landmarks already. And we would build a mimic essentially a new to family of the same style and design and programming as the one next to it, which you see in the plans. There are variants pertains only to the lot with, which is again required to be 40 for both. And we're only dealing with 14. Okay, and the drive the driveway is is completely within the lot of 14. Reboats driveway. So these are these are two structures on one law, which is allowed under section 55.41 subsection 12 allows to share the right. Correct. Sir, yep. Okay, correct. Can you collect? Can you scroll down so we can see the rest of the drawings? Okay, that makes it clear that one. All right. Keep going. All right, Mr. Hanley, I'm sorry, is there anything else? Yeah, so just to take you inside of the proposed to family, I think it's a lot of people who are, they are identical size two bedroom units of good size, 1,138 square feet each, each with parking. This is contemplated to be a condominium home ownership project. Very consistent with what we've heard from this board with this with respect to ample sized housing units for family units. So we're going to see which we think would be a natural. Okay, collect, keep scrolling down. So can we see the elevations and renderings if there aren't? Okay, very good. Thank you. Okay. Is that all right, very so really the only the only zoning issue is the lot with. Correct. And at the rear of the site only right, right, due to a mistake. Mr Robinson, how are the drawings? Well, I think it's a plan is good. Just one question on the curb cut with it's indicated 12 feet, I think. I assume we can go to a 10 foot for that or is that 12 needed because it's shared? Minimized saving between the houses. Yeah, because of the shared condition. That's the 12 foot. Of course, we have, you know, not a big deal. I just just wonder about it. I think it's a very important thing to see. And I think it's a very important thing to see. There are two window well shown, but there does not call out any. Living space necessarily in the basement is what? Is that I mean, so it's there's habitable space in the basement. Those are egress fully compliant. You know, window wells. And if you look on the plans, it's essentially like Rex face, you know, the plan is to be a little bit more open. Collebt, can you do us a floor plan for the next one? Please. Okay. There's no there's no bedrooms running called out. I just want to prepare the case. Yes. Thank you. No other questions for me. Thank you. Okay. Any questions on the board? Is there anyone to test fine behalf of the proposal? Yes. Good morning, Mr. Chair and members of the board. I'm going to ask for the board's services on a better's meeting. Off this proposal was held on March 15, 2021, and the applicant has received the support of the Jamaica Plain Neighborhood Council and the Eglison Square Neighborhood Association. So the mayor's office would like to go on record and support. Thank you. Good morning, Mr. Chair and members of the board. This is Peter Favreto from Councillor Matto Malie's office. The council would also like to go on record and support. Thank you. Good morning, Mr. Chair and members of the board. Karen Foley, Councillor Saby Joe Disartis. We'd like to go on record and support. Thank you. Mr. Chair and members of the board. I'll solve the empty the council's allows me to clarify the concept of record support. Mr. Chair, I do have a raise hand by Luan. Let me just try. Luan, would you like to speak to this project as well? Mr. Chair, secretary here. We have three letters of support. Luan, are you looking to speak to this project as well? No, ma'am. I'm sorry. I just forgot to put my hand down. Mr. Chair, I have no additional raise hands. Okay. Can I have a motion, please? I'll make a motion to support with VP-D design review. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Aye. All opposed. Okay. You guys have it. Mark for carries. Thank you. All right. Next case. Call me bill. 1-1-7-5-1-1-2-8-43-Columbia Road. This is illegalized. 216 road square feet of existing finish basement as a little bit of space. No work to be done. Violation out of 65, section 9. Flood area ratio is excessive. Name and address for the record, please. Good morning, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Chairman, members of the board. Scott Kirkwood, the 19th of Washington Street representing the owners 843-Columbia Road at LLC. You know, this one's pretty simple. I think the best place to look is really the side elevations that. That'll kind of show you how. This space is being egressed out of, which I think is the most important thing. Even if you were to include the bathroom. Downstairs, you know, as part of this 216-grows square feet of livable space, which obviously does not need to be because it has mechanical venting. That would require 8.5 square feet of natural ventilation per the square footage. And we have 10.5 feet here. When you egress out that window, it's only a foot down. And the windows dimensions are 31 inches by 50 inches. And finish still height above the finished floor is 40 inches. So the window is completely out. It's not actually the low rate of sight grades down in the back. So it's not. It's not really a basement the way it lives. There's plenty of light that gets in there. I actually included as part of my appeal. Photos of what the finished condition looks like. And there's plenty of light that gets in there. Eight foot finish ceiling height at one point in three. That's still within the residential code. So yeah, I mean, pretty simple ask here. So the year this is this is no there's no work involved. You're asking to legalize an existing condition. Yes, sir. Yes, sir. How is it being used now? It's not being used. Just management storage for us right now. Till it gets legalized. And what would the plan be to use it assuming it does get legalized? You know, I mean, it's it's shown as a bedroom. So probably use it as a bedroom. So there's a stairwell connecting to the first floor. Yes, sir. It's a duplex unit. Yeah. Okay. So and right now, what is the first floor being used as? The first floor is just building and dining and it's an office in a bedroom. So the building is also fully protected sprinkled. Yeah, no, no, no, I'm not I'm just trying to figure out. So when you leave you typically when you legalize something, it's because there's an existing use that simply has not been made legal. So are there tenants on the first floor? There are three tenants in the building right now in the in the unit rather right now. There are three people living there and we're not occupying this space. We put a lock on the door. Early versions of the inspector and we just want to legalize it. And so that's it. Okay. Okay. So Mr Robinson, the usual set of questions for team does look like the topography of the site is sloped. And if the bedroom is in the rear, it seems like it's almost a walk out. Is that correct? That's correct. I live right over here. So I swung by the other day just take a look and I think there's it's not one of our typical issues. So I think it's generally okay. Okay. Any questions on the board? Is anyone to testify on behalf of the applicant? Good afternoon, Mr. Chairman. Members of the board, Patrick Van L mayors office and neighborhood services. We'd like to go on record and support this proposal. I'm sure you've heard of the request. No concerns are raised. Thank you. Mr. Chairman, members of the board, Joe McGeck, Grant City Council, Frank Baker's office. We'd like to go on record and support. Mr. Chairman, members of the board, Karen Foley Council, Osab, to Georgia's office. We'd like to go on record and support. Thank you. Anybody else? Any up? Any one in the speaking opposition? Any up? Any raised hands? Mr. Chairman, I know raised hands. Okay. Can I have a motion please? I'll make a motion to approve. Second. Second. All those in favor? Aye. All those motion carries. Thank you, everyone. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, I guess Keyes, Connick BLA 116-3273-4164-164-164-Loshington Street. Is Washington Street on? Mr. Chair, this is what I talked about earlier. Yeah. Posted deferred. One is on one roll house. Yes, Mr. Chair, Kyle Smith, for the proponent. It's on the call. Are you deferring, sir? What is the reason for the request to defer? We're looking for the applicant to make that request. We weren't seeking to defer, sir. Is there a reason why we are being requested to defer? The plan's examined. I can need to review the revised plans. There have not been a revised plan submitted, sir. Well, I'm confused. So what are you asking to go forward with the hearing? Because we've got to notice saying that the applicant intended to ask for deferral. No, sir. We have submitted one set of plans to ISC. If there is confusion there, we can certainly defer to eliminate it. But we have submitted one set of plans. And that is what we believe is being presented before you today, sir. Mr. Chairman, this is Eric. I have not received plans to review. Okay. Well, that makes it difficult to go forward in any case. I'll make a motion for deferral. Second. I'll second that to my second. I'll pose. Okay. Make please to the applicant. Make sure that you get when we have it come up with a date at the architect that's not to review the plans. We should submit them to me. I have Eric's personal information for forwarding. Please. Senator I.C. You can have a date of July 13th. That's what I'm doing. Okay. Let's keep going. Going to the last case for 930. Calling the OS. 940. 940. 257 to 259. Cambridge Street. This is a change of our to include a cannabis establishment. This is an article 51 section 16. Cannabis establishment uses conditional. An article 51 section 53. Bringing in. Buffering. David address for the record. Please. Hello, Mr. Chairman and members of board. This is Mike Ross with business address of one international place at Prinsel Bell. I'm joined here with the principle of union twisting the recent four as well as our security consultant, Dan Linsky. This is the foreign body auto building over at the corner of Lincoln and Cambridge Street in Austin. It's in a NS1 neighborhood shopping sub district, which is allowed by conditional use permit for cannabis establishment for the use. It's a 9000 square foot building. We're not proposing any additions to it. What we're going to do is take 3,000 of the building to use for the retail area and that remaining approximately 6,000 is going to be indoor parking and indoor to the building with the vehicle along the same bay that is there today in the same curb cut this third day because its previous use was actually an automobile and there'll be room for 11 spaces within the building. And then when you exit, you're going to exit out of the existing bay off the rear of the building and that will then allow you to exit onto Empire Street, which is a one way street that points away from the existing neighborhood. So it really works from a vehicular point of view and I point that out because it didn't start this way and there was a robust community process and the project really has been made a lot better. We really were trying to get in through the back and was very complicated. So it's a much smaller retail area. There's one entrance for the customers and then there's a separate entrance for security through the same lobby entrance. The hours of operations that are proposed here are from 9 am to 8 pm, seven days a week. There's additional landscaping and bicycle area for people and pedestrians to encourage non vehicular access to the building. And the other plan and there's some elevations that you can look through here. The other plan is to just maintain the existing signage on the building, obviously subject to BPD design review to change the signs accordingly to use the signage of the union twist. Some of the elevations will show that we've reduced some of the glazing and the windows on the building. And in any case where there are windows, they'll be adequately screened. There was originally a fire door, exit door closer to the residential area and we wound up moving that to the Lincoln Street side so that there's absolutely nothing on the east elevation near the. And on the elevations that have bought the neighborhood or the residential area we've been working very closely with this particular community. Maybe I'll pause there, Mr. Chair and see if there are any questions. So this has more parking than the typical Canada's establishment. How many spaces underground and how many surface spaces? That they're all surface. It's funny that there is underground in the existing structure. We will wind up discontinuing the underground space and just decking over the top of that so that we'll be able to fit a total of 11 as well as the delivery. Okay, I'm going to collect. Can you go back to the site plan? Your answer just confused me. I don't think quite. Oh, sorry about that. So the pre-exchange. There's a garage entrance, right? Yeah. And you can see it on the elevation as well but the site plan is just as good. At the bottom of your screen, that's the Lincoln Street. Yeah. So you'd enter right there in that lower left hand corner where the arrows are through the existing bay. There used to be, or there is today, we went there. There's a ramp that goes into the basement of this building. Yes, that's what I was asking about. So what's that going to be used for? We'll get rid of that ramp. We're going to deck up for that and we'll just make it one floor. And then that way you go in, you go out and you come around. So, no, I don't understand. Okay, so will the basement be used for storage now or what will happen with the basement? I really don't think we're going to do anything down in the basement. I think it will be discontinued. We didn't show it in the plans. You're going to have to deck over it. We're renting the building. So if presumably we ever have to turn this back to the landlord, we'll have to figure out what to do with the basement. Maybe restore to its current condition. Okay. And what is the anticipation about flood traffic versus online ordering? I mean, we now have enough experience with these stores to have a better approximation that I think we did say a year ago. Yes, yeah. We're seeing a lot of, we're seeing about 50% online ordering because there's just such a variety of product and the customer really wants to know. And if they don't have it at one store, they're going to go to another store. And then you're seeing so many stores proliferate this area that the number is dropping of people per store to probably around the 200 number now. Okay. We're seeing in the industry, Mr. Chairman. Okay. Part of the drawings, Mr. Robinson. The plans are good. Are there any questions in the board? Is there anyone here to testify on behalf of the applicant? Yes. Members of the board, Connor Newman with the Mayor's Office and Neighborhood Services. Let's go and write your support of this proposal. We conducted the city run public meeting on February 6th of 2019, but subsequently since then, the applicant has been a number of times with the Austin Civic Association and also conducted their own meetings with residents using multiple different languages to ensure that they were reaching everyone. We think that this is an appropriate location. It's close to two bus lines, also not a far walk from Harvard Square. I used to live in the area. We think it's going to be a great opportunity to create jobs for local people in this part of the neighborhood. Thank you. Before we take out the testimony, Mr. Russ, the usual questions about proximity to other establishments, proximity schools, etc. Yeah. The closest, it clears all buffers. There are no buffers. The closest facility would be the home library, probably close to a thousand square feet, a thousand feet away. Okay. And when you're nearest establishment? Well over half a mile, Mr. Chair, I'm actually trying to think right now. And I do think we actually did provide some buffer images for you. You could probably see it if you want to pull it out, but the well over half a mile, Mr. Chair. Okay. Okay. All right. I'm sorry. Let's continue with the testimony. Mr. Chair, I do have three raised hands at no one else. Mr. Chair, before that, sorry Jessica. We have three letters of opposition in one letter of support. And the opposition is based on what Mr. Fortune, opposition, young children in the neighborhood, residential, residential, residential area, home and library. That's basically what was coming up. Okay. Any other other before we take the raised hands, any other elected officials? Okay, Madam Vassar. Go to the raised hands in. Okay. Kelly Moss. You've been a mute. Can you station name it? Well, address my there. Can you hear me? Yes. My name is Kelly Moss. I live on 21 warm wood in South Boston. So this is my community. We're talking about. I just wanted to speak very quickly about. Wait, wait, wait, you live in South Boston? Yeah. What projects you look at? That's not this project. That's probably because of an Austin Brighton. Oh, sorry about that. Could I speak on behalf of someone who uses medical medical marijuana? No, if you live in South Boston, there is a there is a cannabis project coming up in South Boston later in the agenda. I want the wrong. Yes, you're on the right. I'm waiting. Okay. Anthony, you've been a muted. Can you station name it? Well, I just please. Yes. Good morning, Mr. Chair. Members of the board. Tony Dizador representing the Austin Civic Association. This has been a tough one for us. The proponents have been before the community for a little over two years now. And based on the consensus of the membership of the association, no clear consensus was established either way. Those in opposition are basically categorized there opposition under three areas. The location, parking and traffic and with the other end of the, I'll talk real quick about each three of all three on the traffic side. As you know, there is a considerable development planned in the North Austin, North Brighton, Cambridge Street, Colorado. That traffic is only going to get worse. So, I want to give you a quick response to the credit. Listen to the community and from their initial proposal and decided to change it to have access from Cambridge Street on to Lincoln Street. But they are still ongoing concerns. It's a very compression construction there in front of the building. And so, I think that's still concerns that with all this development and people coming on and off the mass term, like that, this will simply make situation make the situation even worse. In terms of the location, it needs to be said that this location directly abuts a family oriented immigrant population. If you've seen any of the pictures of the site, you'll see these world houses directly beside the establishment. I did get a call from a direct butter this morning expressing a lot of people there feel kind of powerless. They, you know, they're willing to put up with it if they have to, but they're not jumping up and down about the possibility of having a cannabis dispensary right next door to their home where a lot of their small children. So, so that is. All right. Thank you, Tony. Thank you very much. Okay, Victor, can you stage your full name and address please? Yes, the morning, Mr. Chair, members of the board City Council. This is Victor Sue and I'm speaking on behalf of 255 and 253 Cambridge Street. This represents the six families that abut and will live next to the proposed unit with project. And so, thanks for giving me the opportunity to speak. After speaking with just all the families, you know, they are in strong opposition for several reasons. And I was high like to when Tony was able to, you know, speak on behalf of some of this. But, you know, first, you know, this is a very residential majority immigrant neighborhood, you know, neighborhood's vibrant with school age children. There's children running around in the alley behind the building around the building in front of it. And the project will introduce, you know, to put frankly, weed smokers that will introduce crime, strong odors, vacancy and then interactions with, you know, the children there and the families. So, we understand. So, I think Tony made the point that we understand the concern about being a residential neighborhood. It's right of anything else. You know, you know, you twist his well-funded venture capital back. You know, there's locations all over Boston and given the amount of on occupied retail and commercial. So, you know, we're just a little bit surprised that they would want to choose a residential immigrant neighborhood. The second is, yeah. The second is just the parking. So, you know, it's already impossible to find parking in the neighborhood. Sometimes, you know, you're driving around for hours. And there aren't any real affordable parking options that are paid in the area. The addition of to us adding thousands of new visitors a day. You know, we commend that they've reduced the retail footprint, but there's an assumption that our reduction of the footprint is going to decrease the number of clientele. And that's a false assumption. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. We got your vote. So, there's the proximity and residential neighborhood of an immigrant community and the issue of parking and density. I'm Mr. Ross can you or the security or any other proponents who are here talking about the issue of security and how to keep people who are purchasers of the product from impacting the neighborhood. How do you intend to handle that? As we can, Mr. or like we, Mr. Sherman, we have traded multiple good neighbor agreements with Mr. Sue that included moving the emergency exit providing cameras outside, allowing them to monitor their own cameras to audit that we're going to do. We say we're going to do. I thought we were very close to an agreement, but I think that there is definitely a stigma associated with the proposed use. I, we have the Dan Linsky's on the calls. Well, he's looked at the good neighbor agreement. And I think you can hear in the comments that we've really come a wrong way with this community. I was standing the underlying concern about their proposed use. The previous use here, it was on mobile use with additional base and entrances. I think two additional base and entrances they had cars going in and out every all day parking on the sidewalk. We're going to landscape area. We're going to only have 11 internal cars. We're shrinking the, the footprint of the site, if you will. So we are addressing the issues that are raised. There will be people. Mr. Ross, let me ask you a question. How many people do you anticipate that any given time working inside the establishment? Working would be less than 12 probably closer to 8 to 10. It's very small. If you have 11 spaces and you have 8 to 10 people, are they? Are you assuming that the employees will be parking on the site? No, we were going to do a 100% subsidy of blue bikes membership, 100% subsidy of MBTA cards for our employees. We do not want our employees parking on site. It would be a horrible use of our facility. Okay, is there any other, is there any other testimony? If not, I would entertain a motion from the board. Motion approved, what BPD, a design review? For this up, can only have this up, but only. So thank you. There's a second. All those in favor? Hi. Hi. All opposed? Okay, the motion passes. Mr. Ross, I would really strongly encourage you to continue just because you got approval to not ease up on the notion of good neighbor agreement and continue to try to work. I would really strongly encourage you to continue to try to. I'll leave the fears of the abouters. Understood, Mr. Schringer. Mr. Chambie, we've thought I'd call the 11 o'clock. We'll back to you the extension so we can close that out. Is Mr. Furullo on? Yes, he is. Sorry. Good morning. Hold on a second, Mr. Perulo. Let me call into the record. Then you can speak. I'm calling the cases for extension. I'm early this morning. 30 case BLA 805 9343. Selling place. There's a companion case BLA 805 9323. Selling place. Mr. Chambie did expire last week for 27 2021. If we grant this, this would be the second extension. Name it address for the record please. I'm very sorry. I'm very sorry. I'm very sorry. I'm very sorry. I'm very sorry. I'm very sorry. I'm very sorry. I'm very sorry. I'm very sorry. I'm very sorry. I'm very sorry. I'm very sorry. I'm very sorry. I'm very sorry. I'm very sorry. I'm very sorry. I'm very sorry. I'm very sorry. I'm very sorry. I'm very sorry. I'm very sorry. I'm very sorry. I'm very sorry. I'm very sorry. I'm very sorry. I'm very sorry. I'm very sorry. As the crisis has started. As the crisis has started this. It required. The first extension was due the fact that it required. The first extension was due the fact that it required. That required. Reengineering because this. This is a decision going on the building that slowed down. So we would ask that we have one additional extension of the speed of law. Okay, so Mr. Farrell, as you know, we're reluctant to give multiple extensions, but is it your assumption that with another saying one year extension that they could move forward on? We want to hear from you again. I definitely think so, and it's noted that if the board decides to make this the last extension, it will be more objection. Okay, all right. I have a motion, please. I should throw one year extension on the date of expiration. Second. All those in favor? I. I was. Okay, you have the one year extension, Mr. Farrell. Thank you very much. All right, Mr. Fortune. I would like to adjourn for a few minutes, but you want to find out if there are any deferrals and withdraws? Yeah, it's if we're okay with that, that way I can take them out. For 11 o'clock hearings, it's now 1117. Are there any deferrals or withdrawals for 11 o'clock? Can you give me the address, please? Hearing on, I guess we could take a break. Okay, so it's now 1117. Let's take a five minute break so we start again at 1122. Okay, so we're going to start again. Okay, so we're going to start again at 1122. Okay, so we're going to start again at 1122. Okay, so we're going to start again at 1122. Okay, so we're going to start again at 1122. Okay, so we're going to start again at 1122. Okay, so we're going to start again at 1122. Okay, so we're going to start again at 1122. Okay, so we're going to start again at 1122. Okay, so we're going to start again at 1122. Okay, so we're going to start again at 1122. Okay, so we're going to start again at 1122. Okay, so we're going to start again at 1122. Okay, so we're going to start again at 1122. Okay, so we're going to start again at 1122. Okay, so we're going to start again at 1122. Okay, so we're going to start again at 1122. Okay, so we're going to start again at 1122. Okay, so we're going to start again at 1122. Okay, so we're going to start again at 1122. Okay, so we're going to start again at 1122. Okay, so we're going to start again at 1122. Okay, so we're going to start again at 1122. Okay, so we're going to start again at 1122. Okay, so we're going to start again at 1122. Okay, so we're going to start again at 1122. Okay, so we're going to start again at 1122. Okay, so we're going to start again at 1122. Okay, so we're going to start again at 1122. Okay, so we're going to start again at 1122. Okay, so we're going to start again at 1122. Okay, so we're going to start again at 1122. Okay, so we're going to start again at 1122. Okay, so we're going to start again at 1122. Okay, so we're going to start again at 1122. Okay, so we're going to start again at 1122. Okay, so we're going to start again at 1122. Okay, so we're going to start again at 1122. Okay, so we're going to start again at 1122. Okay, so we're going to start again at 1122. Okay, so we're going to start again at 1122. Okay, so we're going to start again at 1122. Okay, so we're going to start again at 1122. Okay, so we're going to start again at 1122. Okay, so we're going to start again at 1122. Okay, so we're going to start again at 1122. Okay, so we're going to start again at 1122. Okay, so we're going to start again at 1122. Okay, so we're going to start again at 1122. Okay, so we're going to start again at 1122. Okay, so we're going to start again at 1122. Okay, so we're going to start again at 1122. Okay, so we're going to start again at 1122. Okay, so we're going to start again at 1122. Okay, so we're going to start again at 1122. Okay, so we're going to start again at 1122. Okay, so we're going to start again at 1122. Okay, so we're going to start again at 1122. Okay, so we're going to start again at 1122. Okay, so we're going to start again at 1122. Okay, so we're going to start again at 1122. Okay, so we're going to start again at 1122. Okay, so we're going to start again at 1122. Okay, so we're going to start again at 1122. Okay, so we're going to start again at 1122. Okay, so we're going to start again at 1122. Okay, so we're going to start again at 1122. Okay, so we're going to start again at 1122. Okay, so we're going to start again at 1122. Okay, so we're going to start again at 1122. Okay, so we're going to start again at 1122. Okay, so we're going to start again at 1122. Okay, so we're going to start again at 1122. Okay, so we're going to start again at 1122. Okay, so we're going to start again at 1122. Okay, so we're going to start again at 1122. Okay, so we're going to start again at 1122. Okay, so we're going to start again at 1122. Okay, so we're going to start again at 1122. Okay, so we're going to start again at 1122. Okay, so we're going to start again at 1122. Okay, so we're going to start again at 1122. Okay, so we're going to start again at 1122. Okay, so we're going to start again at 1122. Okay, so we're going to start again at 1122. Okay, so we're going to start again at 1122. Okay, so we're going to start again at 1122. Okay, so we're going to start again at 1122. Okay, so we're going to start again at 1122. Okay, so we're going to start again at 1122. Okay, so we're going to start again at 1122. Okay, so we're going to start again at 1122. Okay, so we're going to start again at 1122. Okay, so we're going to start again at 1122. Okay, so we're going to start again at 1122. Okay, so we're going to start again at 1122. Okay, so we're going to start again at 1122. Okay, so we're going to start again at 1122. Okay, so we're going to start again at 1122. Okay, so we're going to start again at 1122. Okay, so we're going to start again at 1122. Okay, so we're going to start again at 1122. Okay, so we're going to start again at 1122. Okay, so we're going to start again at 1122. Okay, so we're going to start again at 1122. Okay, so we're going to start again at 1122. Okay, so we're going to start again at 1122. Okay, so we're going to start again at 1122. Okay, so we're going to start again at 1122. Okay, so we're going to start again at 1122. Okay, so we're going to start again at 1122. Okay, so we're going to start again at 1122. Okay, so we're going to start again at 11學 1. Okay. Okay, so we're going to start again at 1122. Um, okay, so we're on the table as well. Um, okay, so we're on the table and in general for that uh, Okay, so this is on the table and in general for that uh, this is on the table and in general for that uh, Okay. at 11 o'clock only. If you have any, please can you address now. Very none. I call the first case calling the OA 114 6559 456 Saratoga Street. This is to Eddie, we're opening closing the deck on the first floor. Well, the first floor unit enlarges the rear decks on the second and third floor and adding new deck above. The Violet Article 53 section 9, the Florida Ratio is excessive. Article 53 section 9, the villain has excessive and peace. Article 53 section 9, the rear yards insufficient. And Article 9 section 1 is the extension of a nine performing use. They may address further record please. Mr Chairman, members of the board, Doug Steffler of architect representing the owner of the building as well as the proponent, Pedro Morales. Deer all, thank you very much for hearing us today. We come before you with a request to add some living space to the back of the building and extend and build the decks in the back up higher. We did leaflet the area, did community review. We had two successful presentations to the Eagle Hill Civic Association to which they approved the project. It's a fully small. The owner is also incorporating some improvements to the backyard. I can share my screen if you'd like or show who's going further on in the set. Yeah, no, no, you can't share your screen. We'll just, we'll just do the drawings that are on the screen now. So what is it currently a deck on the first floor? We'd like to close to become living space. The owner lives on the first floor. So it's approximately 150 spurvy. That's called that as new area on the first floor. They'll rebuild the decks on the back that are above that, which are needed repair and adding an additional deck on the top, which is where the height violation comes in. This, the building is currently non-conforming in FAR. So this and the increase of course requires relief for four area ratio. You can go further on expand screen. That's just the architectural plan showing the decks. I'm just in large plans. Next please. And those are the decks. There's a elevation on the side showing the decks rebuilt and the new deck on the top. No change to the front. So there's no change to the street. Next please. Those are the rear view. The side is ascending to the back. That's the tail end of Eagle Hill. So there's about eight, nine foot grade change in the back for the next street and then the hill continues out. I'm informed that the client has now successfully purchased the land behind him from the city, which is kind of in development. Next please. Oh, these are fire. No, next. Next. Interesting structural drawings. That's the project. Okay. So, Mr. Stepanov, on the first floor, when it's enclosing the existing deck, is that the same footprint or is it enlarging it? That's the same footprint as the existing deck. Okay. So the rear yard setback violation is that preexisting? Well, yes, 27.3 feet to the existing deck. Correct. So that's unchanged. It's still 27.3. Yes, yeah, we don't change it. Okay. And then we're there, we're there existing decks above that one or are they all new? Yes, sir. There are existing decks on two and three. Okay. So the only new deck, completely new deck is on the roof, which as he continues, the stairways continuing up to that level. Correct. Okay. And is there any other work being contemplated as far as this proposal? As mentioned, just landscaping, retaining wall through the rear yard to beautify the rear yards and new work. Okay. All right. Is there a site plan? Collette? Yeah. Okay. Yeah. Okay. Okay. Okay. I mean, we're doing some surface recharge. So that shows the tank in the backyard buried. Okay. Okay. That's very good. Mr. Robinson, how are the plans? The plans are fine. It would be great if Mr. Stavinov could just quickly, which I'm probably not in our purview, but could you just please explain the basement unit? As you know, the book is not in love with basement units. I understand this is an existing condition, but it is an FAR issue. And I just want to make sure that I guess to the best our ability. This is safe. And I'm just looking at it. I just want to make sure we understand that. Yes. So the lower the basement is an additional dwelling unit permitted under the ADU program. It is fully sprinkled and has two means of egress with proper bedroom emergency egress walls. Well, that's not usually what our concern is as Mr. Robinson's pointing out is you know, Mr. Stavinov, we're concerned about a low grade living space. So what's the relationship of the basement? I recognize that this is a pre-existing and as Mr. Robinson said, not necessarily in our purview, but I'm curious. Now, see what the relationship is of the basement floor and the grade. The front of the building is higher. The back of the building is lower. So the front is about three or four feet above grade. It does fall off to the back, which I can see in the section. I just want to make sure it's legal and the egress is there and it's helpful that the sprinklers are there. So that's all. I just want to make sure we were all clear on that. Thank you. Yes, thank you. Yeah, no, I recognize that that's not part of what has come before us. We might have a different view if it was. So okay. Any other questions, Mr. Robinson? No. Thank you. Any other questions on the board? Is there anybody here to testify on behalf of the applicant? Good morning, Mr. Chair and members of the board. I'm meeting with the Mayor's Office of the NEPO Services. We would like to go under my current support for this proposal. During the community process, these proposals are received strong support from the EGL and civil society and from the ABARIS. Thank you. Good morning, Mr. Chair and members of the board. We're part of a challenge from the office of City Council, Lydia Edwards. The Council would also like to go on the record and support. Good morning, Mr. Chair and members of the board. Karen Foley, Councilor Saby, George's office. We'd like to go on record and support. Thank you. Mr. Chair, I do have two ways, hands up. No one else is. We're going to speak. Did I see somebody in chat? Yes, yep. Okay. Mark, Collie, you've been unmuted. Can you state your name and address please? Yes, I'm Mark Corvia, I live at 268 West St. on the corner of third and F. Local residents south Boston, I just want to express my support for this project. I have a lot of friends and relatives that use cannabis. This is not the cannabis project we're talking about. Sorry about that. Yeah, yeah. Apparently a lot of people want to talk about that one. Okay. Any other raised hands? Yes, like Pedro, are you here for this project? Hi. Happy to hear to speak and support our opposition for this project. Support. I'm here to speak and support. Oh, go ahead and start. Are you a cut off? Can you state your full name and address please for the record? Yes, my full name is Pedro Miguel, Pedro González Morais. My address is the address of the property, 4567 to the street. Are you the owner, sir? I'm the owner. Yes, and I hope. Okay, so if you're the owner, if you're the owner, we're assuming you're in favor. That would be, that would be surprising if you weren't. Which, we don't need that testimony. Thank you. Yeah, I also have a Kelly Ross. Kelly, is your, are you looking to speak and support our opposition for this project? No, I'm talking about the I'm waiting to talk about the self-awesome project. Okay, so everyone was a hand race. Over your hand, please. Okay. I gather there's no more testimony. That's kind of a motion, please. Prove. Second. That broke off. What was the motion? I'm motion or approve. It's great approval. We need BPD, a design review, Jeff. No, no, not at all. Okay. Okay. All those in favor? All right. All opposed. Motion carries. Thank you all very much. Following the next case, following BOA 1146206, 342 Meridian Street. This is, change, to a four unit residential dwelling. Reignivate the lower unit. The violation of the ICC 53 Section 56, on street parking's insufficient. Medical 2017. This is in the East Boss and ICC. Medical 53 Section 9, the additional lot of areas insufficient. Medical 53 Section 9, the Floyd A ratio is excessive. And ICC 53 Section 9, the usable of the space and the insufficient. David, address for the record, please. Good morning, Mr. Chair, members of the board, Richard Lins, 245 Sumner Street East Boss and on behalf of the petitioner of Asperger L.C., Beth McDougall, the architect for the project is also with me. Probably easiest than to do is jump right to the street unit. Take a quick look at these roadhouses. This is perfect right here. Mr. Chair, this is located in the MFI District Multifamily Residential, which we are proposing. This would be in a lot of use. The unit is in the lower level. However, this, not unlike others that we've done for a joining properties here, has a full walkout to the rear and a sub basement underneath it. So probably the best way to look at the rear portion of the building, if we could just move down to the next slide or so. One more. Maybe one more. Perfect. So what we're seeing here is the rear portion of the building, which does, as I expressed, is above actually the rear grade of the property. There is a sub basement below that. The floor is ceiling height for this level is over 8 feet. And I would also, I think you jump to the next slide as well. It shows the location of windows for that level. Perfect. So typically, while that lower level would be below the grade of the interior, it is above grade, again, for the back portion of the property. And our floor plan and the layout of our floor plan is taken to account the full access for these windows and for the ability to use those as proper egress windows. In your next slide, please. So just our section plan showing, again, the sub basement that is below the basement level is above five feet ten inches. And then the basement level, which we're proposing for the additional unit is 8 feet four inches. So whether or not there's a requirement of the building next slide, please. So our proposed plan shows us that two bedroom. There is sufficient egress out the rear as well as the front of the building. And then where we are proposing bedrooms, we do have the wind goodness, which complied with the egress requirements under the building code. So, although I understand the board's position when it comes to low grade units, this based upon a location on Meridian Street and the slope between Meridian and Border Street, this actually is pretty much above grade towards the rear portion of the building. So that might issue the last slide. So with respect to the relief that's necessary, as I said, this is in the MFR district and therefore multi-family four units is allowed as a matter of right. The relief that we require relates to the Floody Area ratio, the additional space, so which already exists, which would otherwise be storage or basement space, is the space that's being converted. We request a variance for that. And then the additional unit would trigger a requirement for one additional parking space. And again, the existing units do not have any parking presently. This is located on a bus line. We feel that the impact from trying to create additional off-street parking for this certainly is an outweigh by the barriers that the meeting proposed. I'm happy to answer any questions Mr. Chair. Okay, so right now what is the basement being used as? It's just basement space, basement storage for all of the units above. That's correct. And what would happen with storage for them if this were to be approved? I think we still have a little bit of space. If we can jump back to that floor plan, we do a little space in the area for storage. And this is a rental building, so this is not intended to be still as additional as individual conduit units. So the storage is more than a convenience and not necessarily something that's pertinent to the units. Okay, it would have been helpful on that slide with the proposed site and sections plan. I understand that this is like many projects that we deal with that has a sloping topography. But you know, you show the the show the elevation the sections from sub basement and basement floor to ceiling and that's helpful. But there there's nothing as shown in relation to grade. And I understand that toward the back part, you know, it's slightly above grade and toward the front parts below grade. But it's but from these plans, at least maybe Mr. Robinson can say different, but I can't tell where what is what where what's below grade, but it's not how much etc. I can I may be able to get a little bit of light Mr. Chairman. If you look at the bedroom that's closest to the front portion, maybe almost a midway back on the right side where it shows proposed plan, it's like show egress as the window. That is the point in the photo that I showed you that is well above the grade of the rear portion of property. So the grade does drop dramatically towards border street. I would suggest probably somewhere about an eighth to maybe a quarter of the way back from the front portion of the building. And how many how many square feet is this proposed unit? 780 square feet. Okay. How are the plans Mr. Robinson? The plans are fine and you're correct. There isn't as much information, but with a little bit of digging, it does appear to be an above grade below level unit. But it does look like it's it should be fine in terms of its market concerns. Okay. Any questions on the board? All right. Is anyone here? I'm not going to go ahead. Is there parking in the rear of the building? Good question Mr. Gerard. There is the available. I believe other other property, property, haven't access to parking. We're not proposing any parking back there. That's a separate use of premise permit. We feel it's a little too congested for parking behind this property. Also, that provides the required needs of egress to a public way, which would egress out onto the public way to the right of the property. So we're not proposing to use that for parking, but there is access to the real personal property. Okay. I'm confused by that answer Mr. Lin. If you look at the site plan, the courts extend almost to the to the lot line. I mean, there's really pretty small rear yard setback. There's a right away. I don't know if I have the map here, but there's a right of way behind all of those properties there that others use for parking. And there's like if you look at if you look at an aerial view of the property, there's this car's back directly behind the building. Yeah. On both sides. On yeah, to the right of us, Mr. Chairman is a very large multi-family apartment building. To the left of us are a similar roadhouse style building, where we've also converted to lower levels. Okay. Any other questions on the board? Does anyone here to test find behalf of the proposal? Good morning, Mr. Chair, members of the board. Linatra Meliwe, the Mayor of Sokoswanae Public Services. We'd like to go on the recording support for this proposal. This proposal received support from the Eagle Hill City Association. And from us. Thank you. Good morning, Mr. Chair, members of the board, a part of the trunk on the Office of City Council, Lydia Edwards. The council would also like to go on the record. Mr. Chair, we have six letters of support. Okay. Good morning, Mr. Chair, members of the board, Karen Foley, Councilor Saabajor, just office would like to go on the record and support. Thank you. Mr. Hampton, there's a BPA one away in on this one. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Yeah, we recommended denial of this because of the bedroom and the basement. We understand that there have been similar proposals on this stretch of meridian. But right now our recommendation was based on the the setting of the bedrooms at the basement. I also know that it's a walk out out back, so but that's our recommendation. Thank you. Okay. Any other hands, Rayce? No, raise hands, Mr. Chair. Okay, Kevin Ocean, please. I think to make a motion to support. I was wondering if we could put a proviso or something in that we put some ballerj or something back there to protect ties from clock parking against the egress in the rail. That's that was my concern. I have no issue with that, Mr. Aguero. So I'll make a motion to support with the notion of protecting the egress path to the public way through ballers. Mr. Robinson, Mr. Aguero, am I doing that through design review or is that just something that council lens will be able to take care since there isn't any other exterior work? Hopefully council lens can take care of it with the building inspector. Perfect. Thank you. Thank you. All those in favor. Aye. Aye. All opposed. Okay. Motion passed. Next case, calling B.O.A. 112-1528-241 Lexington Street. This is to construct a new roof deck. Violation on Article 53, Section 9 in sufficient ray setback, Anonical 53, Section 52. The proposed roof deck, and on a main road from a clod access. Famine, Andrew, a killer, record, please. There's Lexington Street on 241 Lexington Street. I'll see the name of the applicant on the attending list and they don't have any messages. Your honor, Ma, Elimita. Sam. Sam. I'm going to do you know what the applicant's on? I'm on the second floor. Okay. Welcome back. We'll go to the next case. Calling B.O.A. 118-114-858-Berbank Street. This is to erect a new seven-story residential building. The first floor will consist of an amenity of office space. 427 will consist of residential dwelling units. Each dwelling unit will have a projecting exterior deck. Violation on Article 32, Section 4. This is G-Cod. Brown Water Conservation Overlay District, Article 66, Section 42, Ostride Bacons in sufficient. Article 66, Section 8, the office is used to the bid. Article 66, Section 9, the fluidity ratio is excessive. Article 66, Section 9, usable open space is insufficient. An Article 66, Section 9, the ray yacht is insufficient. May the address for the record please. Good morning, Mr. Chair, members of the board. Mark LeCasse, my office is LeCasse Law LLC at 75 Arlington Street in Boston. I represent Haycon Inc, who is also on the call through its president Patrick Hayden. This is a proposal to fill in a long neglected vacant parcel along Burbank Street in the Fenway neighborhood. The slide shown on the screen shows the context of the neighborhood. The round building on the left is the Whole Foods Market near Symphony Hall. The proposed project is mid block on Burbank Street and literally for 40 years has been a unabandoned vacant blighted parcel. And the proposal is to erect a new seven story modern structure on this site. Mixed slides. Here's more context. Again, mid block immediately adjacent to the Fenway Community Development Corporation, which we work very closely with in developing the proposal for this property. And the ground floor use, which is one of our zoning items, there are three office slash work pod spaces on the ground floor of the building, which will be shared with the community through Fenway CDC for community purposes. Again, which is right next door to the proposed project. There's the vacant storefront there where the new building will be constructed. Next slides. More neighborhood context. The architecture is contemporary in nature, but draws on a lot of the elements of the neighborhood context, a variety of styles that are represented on this block of Burbank Street. Mr. Chair, there is a G-Cod applicability and we do have our article 32 letter from Bonsamore and so are in the no harm letter, which you like to address that issue. Let's take your first question. Are you on? Yes, Mr. Chairman, members of the board. Good morning. Christian Seminelli-Bossigrowlander Trust. And yes, we have both the Bonsamore to approval and no harm letters. Okay, Mr. Chair, we do not have the letter on file. Mr. Forge and that came yesterday. I'll be sure to send it into ISD Board of Appeal. Okay, so can we have a motion to approve pending receipt of the letter? So moved. Is there a second? Second. All those in favor? All those opposed? Okay, so let's move on to the merits of the project. With respect to the merits of the project, the proposal is to construct a new seven story, seven year building. There will be five one bedroom units, one two bedroom unit, and one three bedroom unit, which this applicant will occupy as an owner-occupied residence for his family. They live in the neighborhood and will specifically move into the penthouse unit, which is two and a half floors at the top of the building for the owner-occupant. No residential use in the basement level. There's one parking space shown in the back of the building. It's a fairly tight alley back there, the Fenway CDC and some of the other buildings do park back there. So one parking space was pretty much the most we could get back there. But it is of course a walkable neighborhood and there is a large bike storage room on the lower level as well. The zoning violations, first one is the insufficient parking, five would have been required for the seven units and we're showing the one with large bike storage room. The proposed amenities slash office spaces that will be shared with the community on the ground floor. Technically they're not commercial office spaces, but it was cited for a office use as our forbidden, so we would need a variance for that proposed use. The remaining three items are dimensional in nature. The floor area we feel maximum in the MFR sub-district is 4.0 and the proposal is 5.26. The usable open space requirement is 100 square feet per dwelling unit. We have included a small balcony at the rear of the building for more, most of the units, five of the seven units have a little rear balcony in the back of the building to provide some musical open space. Lastly is rear yard insufficiency. 20 is the code requirement. However, this is a narrow lots of the narrow lot exception applies. 11.6 would be required and we're providing 8. Since you're getting to 8.2. I'm sorry. Okay, I'm not sure what that was. It's all a question. A few questions. Yes. What are the size of the units? So the units on the second, third and fourth floor are 400 square feet and 500 square feet in the front and back. The unit on the fifth floor is a floor through and then the pentast unit which is half of five six and seven is 2300 square feet. So how many units are 400? Three of them are 400. So those, I mean those technical air micro units. Right. And part of the design concept incorporated into this proposal with the common amenity space on the ground floor, the large bike store to mirror the compact unit policy. But technically the compact unit policy only applies to buildings with 10 or more units. So we didn't specifically proceed under that process. Oh, I understand, but if you're not proceeding under that process then these are sub uh uh uh then these are you know below the typical requirements of the are these studios one bedroom one of the four hundred square feet is small. It is small. They're they're cleverly designed one bedrooms and um if you'd like Mr. Hayden could weigh in on the design concepts, but it's also a really small lot. It's a sixteen hundred square foot lot and very narrow. So it has been designed with those concepts in mind. It's also very high energy efficient type building with cross-liminated timber construction. Yeah, okay. All right. That's all that's fine. I'm focused on the size of the units right now. So typically again and even though it's not the ten units, typically one there uh when the city policy has been there's a substandard unit size than that's accommodated by community space, amenity space. So could you describe what this space will get used for? I mean I'm looking at the ground floor floor plan and there's a big chunk donated to parking. There's not a lot of other I mean there's not a lot of square footed chair. Well there are the two smaller work pod areas which are common to the building and there's a large concrete room in the front which would be primarily the one shared with uh tournament CDC for community events. So essentially this front half uh you've got two work pod units uh basically that are dedicated to the building and how does that work? What are the use and how do people get access to it? They would be used for you know home office type space and the larger one would also be available except when it's being used by the Fenway CDC. Right so I don't think so that's not a permanent that's not permanently allocated to the use of tenants in the building. Well yes and no it was partly. Yeah well I said permanently the answer was no. Not exclusively not exclusively correct. Okay so um how do people get access to the work body at the sign-up time? What does that happen? Patrick do you want to wait? You know I don't think those kind of micro-curses. Yeah we would use a software co-working software called cobot where people can use the internet to basically reserve it and use their phones to access the spaces. Our office building where I'm at now is set up in that manner and that's how we would share also with the Fenway and the neighbors the residents of the building. I guess I also like to point out that the narrowness of the life and the requirements structurally position the cores where they are sort of clinned to dividing the floor on those two floors to two units it would make an awkward an awkward viewing unit so where the cores are shown where they're required to be structural to build such a narrow building. Okay all right if I can sure being here. Yeah I mean I know they're using the contact units you know size thresholds for you know guidance on this but that's what we're units through the DPDA for 1-bedroom 625. Yes and for D&D projects there's 600. Yeah so I mean these are small for not being in contact unit projects. They're very small points on that. I can't I can't I can't I can't chime in Jeff that the project is very much in line with Article 37 sustainability carbon-feminists. I understand that but that's not what we're talking. Okay yeah okay let me move on to another question before I ask Mr. Robinson to wait. I understand from a contemporary design it's in the middle of somebody's science and back. Thank you. Whatever where that was. There's a I don't know if it's a road between two thorns or how long it's driving but it certainly seems to be the contemporary design does not seem to be consistent with the context. I'm curious what you think about that. Well I think I made my position clear on contemporary design today but you know I think you know I did look at the context of it obviously there are much larger buildings around and it is it is a very thin site I can appreciate the complexity of trying to meet all the code requirements for egress and and sort of accessibility in this sort of in moments so you know I put that design review would be warranted with the BPA but I you know I understand those challenges associated with the size of the units however it will be a new building I appreciate the one slide in terms of its sustainability approach I think that's something that we aren't seeing enough of in the city these days and I think this is something is this is this going through the a passive house design process is that what this is? Yes. So sorry I couldn't get me off we're not going for passive certification but it's very much in line with all several of our projects on and we're planning as many stresses as we can. Yeah frankly the complexity of this size project to go for this certification is not worth it but for all practical purposes it will meet the design standards. Thank you. Okay, there's any other questions for the board. Okay, I asked, so anyone again whoever is that that even if you can mute yourself it would make life better. Mr. Chair it's Mr. Singal. Yes, we've asked him to mute but he has not muted himself. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Jesse. Is there anybody to testify on behalf of the project? Good afternoon Mr. Chair. I'm members of the board Joe Copp and Joe with the Mayors Office of Neighborhood Services. We'd like to go and recognize the board of this proposal. We have received a number of letters of support from director butters as well as local neighborhoods associations that should be on the record board. Thank you. Mr. Copp and Joe are you concerned about the size of the units? Mr. Copp and Joe. We're these and I have support off the community support and the use of the wide. Okay, anybody else? Mr. Chair. Okay, this is me, Jesse. I would like to speak in opposition when you give me a turn. Okay, I'll say let me first let me see if there are other elected officials who want to speak. No, Mr. Chair, before Mr. St. Gall speaks, we do have letters of opposition and we do have a few letters of support. And the opposition basically is the size of the building, density, office space. And Mr. St. Gall is an owner I believe that's where you speak in a building you'll behind it. Okay, Mr. St. Gall, would you put your name and address in the record and let us know the reason for your opposition? Okay, good morning, Your Honor. Good morning Mr. Chairman. My name is Vijay Single. I own the building at 73 Westland Avenue, which is almost exactly opposite the proposed structure. And my opposition is based on several factors. One is parking. One is parking in that alley is illegal and is a safety hazard. I advise that pan-based CDC contractors and office workers park in that alley. But that hinders fired ambulance people from getting in there in cases in emergency. Okay, okay. What do you rather concerns? My other concern is the building is going to stand out like a sotum because it's seven story and all the adjoining buildings in front, back on both sides are four story. And it'll cast shadows and block sunlight in the alley. That alley has garbage pickup. So there's smells, there's insects and blocking sunlight would prevent the natural disinfection from taking place and create more rodents and rats and mice. And also none of the buildings in the area have balconies, rare balconies. So the proposal is going to make the neighborhood non-humogeneous. I mean it's a nice neighborhood of Victorian houses making a contemporary building that seven story high in a four story neighborhood. I think destroys the character and ambiance of that neighborhood. Okay. All right. So we have parking density and historical context and design. Thank you very much. Anybody else testify? Mr. Chair, I have no additional raise hands at this moment. Okay. Then I guess it's time for a motion from the board. Briefly respond, Mr. Chair. No, I just soon go for a motion. Okay. Tonight, tonight's class for one, Mr. Arlee. Mr. Chair, can I ask for one clarification? I'm sorry, I missed this. Can we just confirm the zoning relief needed for this project? I don't think we went through the, there's a zoning table on the package. I just want to make sure we all understand what the zoning regulations are for this building and the proposal. Very quickly. Yep. So G cod, which we've covered, off street parking and sufficient, a use of violation for the proposed office space on the street level and then three dimensional requirements, FAR, excessive, usable open space and rear yard and sufficient. So height is not a violation. It is not a violation. The maximum height in this neighborhood is 75 feet and this building is less than the maximum height, yes. Thank you. Okay. I don't want to make a motion. I mean, I'd like to make a motion to approve what BPDA designer view to give some look at the floor plans and the layouts and the size of the units. Okay. All those in favor? Hi. Okay. I'm opposed. But motion passes. Thank you. They call the next case calling B O I 11 5 1392 22 castle to street. This is a change of architecture. But two to three three residential building creation of a new third floor unit in the attic. In addition, we're access the violation of 55 section body, off street parking is insufficient. Article 55 section 8. The three F and the two F stone is forbidden. Article 55 section 9, the floor of the ratio is excessive. Article 55 section 9, the building has accepted and stories. Article 55 section 9 beside yard is insufficient. They may not just put the record police. Good afternoon, Mr. Chair, members of the board. Mark LeCasse. My office is LeCasse La LLC 75 Arlington Street in Boston. I represent the homeowner Anita Lorsella who is also on the call hall. And the architect Robert Lorsella who has designed this unit for his sister. The proposal is to change the occupancy of this two family to a three F dwelling by turning the attic space into an owner occupied unit for Ms. Lorsella. She currently lives on the ground floor of the building who's lived here for 30 years, but is downsizing as she wishes to, as she puts it, age in place in her smaller unit in the attic of the building that she owns and would rent out the lower two floors for source of income. This is achieved by adding a front dormer, a small doghouse, a small dormer in the front, and then two shed dormers on either side of the building. The zoning violations are off street parking as insufficient by virtue of adding the additional dwelling unit. However, she does not have a car and indicates that there is a tandem space existing on the property currently. The use three F and a two F zone requires relief. The maximum FAR in the subdistrict is 0.6. By adding the additional unit, it brings the FAR to 0.7. The building height number of stories maximum in the subdistrict is two and a half. By adding the dormers, it creates a full third floor, so a variance is required for that. We were cited for side yard insufficiency, which is an existing condition and not exacerbated by this proposal, but merely cited because it's an existing condition. The minimum is 10 feet and the existing condition is 7.7 feet on the side. There's also on this slide, you can see on the right hand side, a new rear airway is being added for a code compliant access to that new unit on the third floor for second means of egress in the back of the building and that bumps out slightly into the rear yard, but does not itself create any zoning violations. That is the gist of the proposal. There are some other slides that show neighborhood context, which inspired the idea. There are lots of dormers both dark hostile in the front and shed dormers on the side on other buildings in the immediate vicinity and Anita did a great job talking to all of her neighbors and going to all of the associations and representing all the reasons that she wants to stay in her house and create a unit for herself on the third floor. Okay, thank you. Do we have slides on neighborhood context? That was my question in terms of the height variance. There's been a second ago in a stick out like a sore thumb in terms of that. No, I'm not sure that the package with the context photos, but the buildings immediately to the left and the right of her building have dormers. There was at least a dozen photos showing the context of this particular neighborhood with lots of dormers. So it is very much consistent with what a lot of other folks have done and inspired. Her idea in fact, and here's the rear, rear scare enclosure shown in the back. And working with the neighborhood, there were some minor design changes to window alignments to accommodate privacy issues and things of that nature. Okay, I'm on the drawings, Mr. Olmason. The plans are good. I mean, I think in terms of the context that I give review that, it is true. You know, a lot of the houses do have dormers and additions. They don't appear to rise above the main ridge as this one does. And I'm not sure exactly the need for that. It's just an head height issue or not, but it's a little different, but there is consistency in some respect, but it's a little bit different. And Mr. Robinson, I think that item is well suited for design review because the Jamaica Pond Association had the same issue. And we, in fact, presented a drawing which showed that a portion of the dormer was reduced to match the roof line in the front and be less visible. So we'd be a manable to having that specifically included as part of the design review as it was addressed. Mr. McClendon, the question is, that modification does not reflect it in the drawings that we have, is it? That's right. Okay, well, you know, we always like to have, we always like to review the actual drawings that are being proposed as opposed to previous iterations. So Mr. Hampton, I think the BPDA weighed in on this one, right? Yes, Mr. Chairman, thank you. We recommended denial without prejudice only because not so much for the dormer additions, because when you look at the street contexts, everybody's almost the same. There's a one or there's a one family, a couple of one families on the street, but for the most part, most of the two families are carbon coffees of one another. We recommended denial because of the use, because it's mostly, I'd say, 95% if not more one or two families on that street. The zoning goes with the property. So this would be a three family. I think there might be one other three family on the street. So we're not opposed to the dormer addition or opposed to the use. Okay, thank you. All right. Any questions in the board? Is there anyone who wants to testify in favor of the project? Yes, good afternoon, Mr. Chair and members of the board. My name is Lindsay Santana from the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services, and the better's meeting was held on December 17, 2020, where the neighbors were supported with the proposal. The applicant received non-application from the Dungeon Makeup on Association, also received the support from the Jamaica Plain Neighborhood Council, so the Mayor's Office in lexicon records support. Thank you. Good afternoon, Mr. Chair and members of the board. This is Peter Grasorito from the Chief Counselor Matt Hommalley's Office. The Councilor has selected to blow on record and support. Thank you. Mr. Chair, Secretary here, we do have a few support letters. Okay, anyone wants to testify in opposition or in favor or any testimony? All right, I do have a handwritten on Anthony. You've been on mute at Can you station name and address please? Hello, my name is Anthony Dreyfus. I live at 18 Castleton Street with a couple doors up from the proposed project. We've had a number of the neighbors who have all been in support of the project. We think it's wonderful to add living space, even if that is beyond the two family limited in the neighborhood because living spaces and such short supply, it's particularly valuable if it allows them needed to stay in their home by just moving up stairs and stay in the neighborhood as a valued neighbor. And this would be a great living space for her. We think all those zoning and use restrictions are much less important than that human concern, which is allowing a neighbor to stay in the neighborhood and in our building. So we would strongly urge you to support the project and not let the rules get in the way of what looks like a great development. Thank you. Okay, thank you for your testimony. Just to make the point that we always make, which is that the decisions go with the property and not with the individual. So regardless of a sympathy for the situation, we need to respond to the property itself and what will happen in the future. Any other testimony? I do have two additional handwritten sounds. I just, but it looks like it's for the previous project. Yeah, we need to, I just saw on the chat about that. We need to, we need to address that. But let's finish this case first. Okay. Okay, can I have a motion please? I'll make a motion to support with BPA design review specifically looking at the height of the dormer in the addition. Excuse me, I don't want to finalize. Can I put councilor Savi George's name in support of this project? Please. Thank you. Okay. All right, Mr. Robinson made a motion. Is there a second? All second. All those in favor? Hi. All opposed? But more wrong. With the motion passes. Thank you so much. In the chat, Madam Ambassador, there's a couple of people who said that they wanted to speak on 58 Burbank and their hands are raised and they were not called. Were you, did you see that or were you aware of that? Yes, so there was also emails coming in from people who were trying to get access. So I've been trying to manage a couple of sites here, but I think once I saw that I wanted to make sure they were acknowledged. As you know it. Okay, I, you know, I really wish we, I mean, I think there was some problems with that, that, without opposing, I really wish we had gotten additional testimony, but we have acted and we did vote and we voted in favor. And what I would like to do is to make sure that those people who are in the chat have their comments read the part of the record, please. Okay. And Mr. Arleck, we're happy to be in touch directly with those folks. There, there really was a strong amount of working with the Fenway's, the Big Association and the Fenway CDC. So we're happy to continue that process. This has been a very much collaborative effort with the neighborhood and we are committed to that. Okay. Let's hope that's successful. Thank you. All right. Following the next case, calling VLA 116-315-4366 North Park Street. This is constructed new secondary addition to an existing auto body shop creating a new office space. The value is that it's an I-61 extension of the law conforming use and article 60 section 40, Austrian parking is insufficient. Name of the address for the record, please. Good morning, Madam Chairman. Mr. Chairman, members of the bullet. My name is James Christopher. I'm one of the principals of RCA LLC located 1156 to adjust the RAV. We are the project architects. The proposal here is to construct a new partial second story addition which really only happens in the center of the building and to pick up the height of the lower roof that you can see illustrated on this photograph here. We met with the Rock Civic Association and in the butter's meeting the project was brought to see by the neighbors, the owner, my petrised user on the call today is well liked and respected in the community. Actually as a result of this process with redefining our community, my is committed to work with the uplife scale. Life skills training and wellness center to provide some educational benefits to local community members and students that may be interested in in auto body and mechanics. So the proposal here before you, as you can see this is the the aerial representation of the slide side. If you go to the next slide please. Thank you. There's no change to the footprint of the building so it occupies much of the site now. We would not be changing that and you can see the dotted indication here at towards the right end of this plan illustrates the proposed addition at the second floor which is approximately 30 foot 9 by 15 foot 6 and a half and the height of the building at the gable end of the addition will be 24 feet. The only of our electrician extension of the nonconforming use and the parking loading requirement. This addition will actually allow Marty to have some more space and garage on the interior for additional links and workspace. So we think that this will actually have a benefit to his loading area and parking that he uses now. If we go to the next slide please. So on the on the interior of the first floor we would rework the entrance and the waiting area to have a new seating area and hang rest and eat rest there. There's a slight elevated platform there and then on the second floor we would just create two new offices as you can see approximately 15 by 15 each to create administrative space for the garage to house the business aspect of the operation. Next slide. Since there are an odd number of tickets. So in elevation here you can see the the grave masonry is the infill of the new building and then above the sign in the center is where that new office space would be located and then this would have this project would include a renovation of the existing elevations of the sod so that this would be largely a new building with minimal changes and minimal impact to the community. Next slide please. And there we go that's largely it. Okay so there's only violations consisting of an extension of the nonconforming use and what else? I'll see you parking. I'm loading. Okay. Okay. All right. How are the drawings Mr. Robinson? Sorry the drawings are good. Okay. Any questions on the board? Jennifer you're in the access to five and a half of the applicant. We met Mr. Chair, Madam of the Board and doffy people chair for the mayor's office in their service and would like to go on record and support the support will report or receive support on behalf of the Woodrow Avenue Board Association that well as reunifying our communities on civic association with letters of support. I can turn into the Board. Thank you. Anyone else? Any representative of the City Council offices? I have no raised hands. Sure. Hold on. Still. Okay. So there's no raised hands at all nobody else wants to testify on behalf of the project or against. Okay. I'm motion then. I'll make a motion to support with BPA designer. Be sure. All those in favor. Hi. Hi. Motion carries. Thank you very nice. The next case calling bill A11633111-110-112-101-Dustry. This is combining two lots into a newly created single lot to be 8,000-415-Swiffy change of October from a two-family to a four-family finishing the basement as a unit and modifying the third floor to make a fourth unit. Constructing new rear addition for enclosed egress stairs on the rear of the house proposed on a straight parking. Thanks. Ago street parking space. So by relation to Article 65 Section 8, a four-family dwelling use is for bit. Article 65 Section 8.2 dwelling unit in the basement up for bit. Article 65 Section 9, the floor to the air ratio is excessive. Article 65 Section 9, the side yard is insufficient. And Article 65 Section 9, the rear yard isn't sufficient. Name an address for the wreckage please. Hi. My name is Sung-Win and the address is 110-1-21-1-Dustry. So I'm looking to convert a two-family to a four-family. I have enough space for parking and I'm looking to make more available spaces for the housing prices and the hostel. And we have the basement will have exits in the front and in the back and it will have exits for the bedrooms as well. Okay. Can you talk about what's the zoning violations are? The zoning violation is there's not enough space in the back to make the porch and there's not enough space on the left side of the house. But that's an existing situation. And the tell us about the unit sizes within the new proposal. Each floor would have about a thousand to a thousand five hundred split-beat of living space. Closer to 1500 thousand. Okay. And I don't know if you're aware of what we're concerned about. So you want it right now? What does it function? It's a good question. Oh. Hello, yes. Well right now on the first floor there's three bedrooms. No, no, no, no, I'm asking you the existing. What's the use of the basement? It's just storage. Okay. So you are proposing to take that basement floor plan and turn it into a additional unit, correct? Yes. Okay. I think you have to go up or down. Let me see. Okay. So I'm trying to figure out our usual if you've been before this board before. If you're familiar with it, we're concerned about living space in the basement. If it's below grade and underground, I'm looking at A11 on the drawings. And it's a little hard to tell. It's it's it's well that's a section. I don't know if you're obviously can you can you interpret what the floor is feeling? Unfortunately, no, Mr. Erick and there seems to be some discrepancy in the even on the elevations and of the existing photos in terms of I'm sorry the existing edition of the Kid Quite Town. Kid Quite Town to be honest. There's the minimum of seven right now. It has the minimum of seven where seven feet height and I'm looking to dig down a little bit more to make it eight feet. Okay. So so then the good there's good news and bad news there. The good news is that by digging down you will meet the bell and code because it asks me seven foot six and a minimum the bad news is that he are further below grade by digging down. I'm really some I don't know Mr. Onsen I'm a little reluctant to go forward with a more detail on the drawings. Yeah, I mean I I was sort of wondering a little bit if I was like to make a motion maybe to defer this for a little bit more information in the drawing and in the application so we can review this more properly. Yeah, I maybe I'll have the the architect come on next time. And that will be good. I think and and have make sure that he submits a set of drawings with more data on it than the current set has. And I think I think also just a couple there's there seems to be two curb cuts one to where you're parking and I think there's also a question of screening and buffering of the parking area is not consistent. So maybe you could take that up with your architects and bring us some information back next time. Okay, so Mr. Ovis and you want an action motion? I'll make a motion to defer. Tag it. All those in favor? All right. I'll impose the motion carries. Thank you. On the date of July 13th at 1230. July 13th at 1230. Okay, so that's the next meeting for me. Yeah, go. Okay, July 13th at 1230. Okay, thank you. Well, Mr. Chair, before I call Washington Street, we're approaching the 1230. We're going past the elementary recommendations. So I'm going to do a couple of things after we do this next case before we get a case street. Yeah, that's fine. I mean, we've got two more in this thing and then I think we'll probably take a break. So yeah, but that would be I would be I'm going to talk I'm going to call Washington Street and we have a case that we haven't that the roll-in is right here. So let me call Washington Street into the wrecking calling the LA. No, let me get one. You know, everybody get muted, please. Following the next case in for the wrecking calling the LA 116 62313815 Washington Street. Yeah, this is the occupant ground occupies the first floor of an existing building once to expand to the second floor. This is an enabled for shopping as per Article 55 table B calls for the education to use conditional on the second floor. They're seeking to change the use of the second floor from office to education. The violation of Article 55, Section 16, the school use second story is called is conditional. Name and address for the record please. Hi there. My my name is Scott Given and I'm the founder and owner of the Cross School located at 3815 Washington Street and Boston. We're a new small private independent school that opened this past fall. Currently in our first school year in operation, we serve 50 students in pre-school pre-kindergarten and kindergarten with a very significant wait list for all those grades. We'll be enrolling 120 students this coming school year and had two times the number of applicants then we have seats available. We're moderately priced private school. They also has extensive financial aid available ensuring I associate economically diverse student body. We're intending to expand the school one grade level at a time over the coming years into a pre-school through grade six school. The summary of our variance request, the school already occupies the ground floor and first floor of the building. The second floor above craft became vacant during COVID and we want to expand within the building. It had most recently been office space for a nonprofit organization. The property is in the JP zoning district and school use is conditional on the second floor and above. Therefore, we're applying for change of use from business to education that would allow our cost to occupy that level. Without this variance, we'd anticipate that our school would serve approximately 220 students within seven years. With this variance, we'd be able to expand the school to approximately 270 students over the next seven years. One final small but important thing of note is that as part of our proposed lease that we have with the owner of building, inclusive of this expanded space, we would have access to additional access parking spots, two lots to the south of 3850 in Washington Street, which is a building also owned by our building owner. And we do do our morning and afternoon drop-offs and pick up across long time windows. So there's never a surge in parking need or traffic at any one particular time. I'm on with our architect, Stephanie Morrison, if she wanted to add anything more if there are any questions. Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. Gibbon. Just a couple of questions. Exactly where on Washington Street is dislocated? So we are just, I'd say about a quarter to a third of a mile to the south of the Forest Hills T-station, who are right on the Rosalindale Jamaica plainline. Okay, okay, I know exactly where you are then. So there's really no change to the building. The other footwear in the building, the envelope with the building, right? It's simply a question expanding up to the additional floor. So this is really from the point of view, violations is question of use, not of any design changes you're making. There's no exterior design changes to this space. All right. Okay, well, knowing that Mr. Robinson, how are the plans? Plans are good. Okay, any questions on the board? Is there anyone here to testify on behalf of the project? Good afternoon, Mr. Chairman, members of the board, Joe Coppin, Joe with the Mayors Office of the NAPO, at services. We'd like to go on record and support this proposal. They went through the community process for no concern from the buddies and may have also received support from the adjacent to make a plain NAPO, council. Thank you. Good afternoon, Mr. Chair, members of the board. This is Peter Feverido from C. Councilor Matt O'Malley's office. The council would also like to go on record and support. Thank you. Good afternoon, Mr. Chair, Karen Foley, councilor Saby George's office, like to go on record and support. Thank you. Mr. Chair, members of the board, Paul Sullivan, for C. Councilor of the Lodge Medical Clarity, Councilor to go on record and support. Mr. Chair, secretary, we have one letter of support. A. Mr. Chair, I have no raised hands at the moment. Okay, then I will entertain a motion. We'll make a motion to approve. Second. All those in favor? Aye. All opposed. Okay, motion carries. Oh, is that someone in opposition? Okay, no, I just heard that I can relate. I like camera. Okay, very good. Mr. Chair, I'm going to go back to the Lexington Street. I'm going to call it back into the record calling B.O.A. 112-1528-241 Lexington Street. Is that out? Mr. Allen. Mr. Nane. I want to be. Your Honor. I want to be. I want to be. I want to be. I want to be. I don't see his name in the chat. I just want to make a motion. If a denial would all prejudice, it is now 12.30. Three. That's second. There was a hand raised. I just want to get it purge. High purge? Yeah. Are you here for this case? Yeah, I'm the human owner and the Lexington Street, sir. Yes, sir. Yeah. Okay, hold on two seconds. I'm going to take my motion back. Okay. I have the architect. You should be on line. Hold on, sir. Hold on, sir. Let me read it into the record. It's B.O.A. 112-1528-241 Lexington Street. This is constructing new roof deck. The violation of the Article 52 Section 9, insufficient rate setback and Article 53 Section 52, the proposed roof deck on the main roof to include access. Name and address for the record please. Thank you. My name is Haranay. I am the homeowner of 241 Lexington Street, Department 3. Okay. Can you tell us where you're proposing? Yeah. So what we're proposing here is to build a roof deck on the third floor. Next to an holiday existing roof deck on the building next door. The access to the roof deck will be from from units free, emptying out to to the roof. And the access to the roof deck is what, through a sliding glass door, but how do you get out to the roof deck? By sliding the wall yet. If you will architect, I had technical issues. I was able to join the roof deck. Okay. We're looking at a roof deck that is not on the top roof of the building, but it's on the lower level of the access. It's straight out of the door from the third floor. Correct. Correct. Yes. Okay. The hinge door access to the back to the rear of the door. Okay. Okay. How to slide it? Okay. That's fine. Yes. All right. Mr. Robinson, how are the drawings? The drawings are good. Okay. Any questions in the board? Is there anyone that's asked to fire on behalf of the proponent? Would after Mr. Chair, members of the board, in a friendly with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services, we would like to welcome the recording support for this proposal. During the committee, it grosses this proposal received support from Eagle Hill City Council's vision and from above. Thank you. Good afternoon. Or a card of a trombone from the Office of City Council, Olivia Edwards. The Council would also like to go on the records. Good afternoon. Karen Foley, Councilor Sabi, George's Office would like to go on record support. Thank you. Mr. Chair, we do have a hand raise. Mark, do you have a chair? I have a chair. Before that. No. Okay. Rory, you've been on mute. Are you here to speak for this case? Rory Williams? Sorry, actually, for this case. Okay. Can you lower your hand please? Thank you. Okay. I have no additional raised hands. Okay. Can I have a motion please? I'll make a motion to support her. Yeah, I don't think I don't think I need to design a view on this. Yeah, I don't want it either. Yeah, that's all good. Get him out of there a second. Got some rumbling noise. There we go. Thank you. Is there a second? Mr. Robinson's motion. I'll second that motion. All those in favor. Second. Okay. All those motion carries. All right, Mr. Chair, before we call K-Speak, because I think it'll be on point for a little while with this one. I need to call into the recommendations in and then I'm going to do to the 12th 30s, starting to close with the rolls and the global back to K-Speak. I'm going to do the recommendations right now. This was on Thursday, May 13, 2021, at 1010 MSF, this was the subcommittee hearing. The first case was two cases B-O-A-1-1-4-5-3-3-0-0-165 West Kanson Street was denied building code. K-Speak, B-O-A-1-1-4-5-7-9-5-165 West Kanson was approved, resulting. The K-Speak, B-O-A-1-1-6-1109-46-N Street, it was the companion case B-O-A-1-6-1110-48-N Street is being heard at 12-30 this afternoon. K-Speak, B-O-A-1-1-7-9-7-6-8-6-97-E Street. This was an existing triple-deckly roof replacement that was approved with no building code. articles on case B-O-A-1-1-7-217-9-70 gates, street was a third floor master street was approved with BPDA. Case B-O-A-1-1-7-3-2-0-5-68 Thomas Park was denied, it was a proposed new pair of pet of Thomas Park. Case B-O-A-1-1-6-3-2-8-4-10-08-10-10-Tremont was a bill out of a barbershop, approved of the approved with BPDA. Case B-O-A-1-1-4-5-4-1-6-96-warren street was was installed 30 by 30 concrete bad install concrete cut roof installed the dollars approved with BPDA. Case B-O-A-1-1-6-6-4-4-7-Victoria Street was the removing place to existing dollars was approved with BPDA. Case B-O-A-10-2-9-4-6-35-Church Street was deferred to June 22nd at 1230. Local board case B-O-A-1-1-3-4-1-7-2-16-Malcolm Road was a renovated existing three-season porch floor four-season porch it was approved with BPDA. Case B-O-A-1-6-5-3-0-1-185 russet road was a repair garage in master bedroom and add donors to the attic it was approved with BPDA. Case B-O-A-1-1-6-6-2-6-2-51-Dowell Road was a sunroof deck was approved with BPDA. Case B-O-A-1-1-6-7-5-9-287-W Street was adding third floor addition was approved with BPDA. Case B-O-A-9-7-0-4-5-2-1-Briggum Street it was denied without prejudice it was denied I'm sorry for packing for one vehicle case B-O-A-1-1-5-1-3-2-9-64 Radcliffe Road it was deferred to July 13 2001 full committee at 1230 in case B-O-A-1-1-2-4-4-4-0-5-2-1-81 maple street was a single family adding in front porch and repair addition to an existing building was approved with BPDA. We need a motion for approval. Is there a motion to occur with recommendations or something? Yes. All those in favor? Hi. All opposed. Okay. All right Mr. Chair now I'm going to go to the 1230 for the referrals of withdrawals and then I'll go back to case street. We have any deferrals or withdrawals the 1230 cases please. Address 8137 Lading Street for the Recki-Falling B-O-A-102 1228 137 Lading Street. Name an address to the record please. Good afternoon Mr. Chair members of the board Richard Lins I'm actually appearing on the behalf of George Ferrancy who's not available by this time asking for withdrawals of 137 Lading. We'll make the motion to the denial of all prejudice. Is there a second? Second. All those in favor? Hi. Hi. All opposed. Hi. Are there any other deferrals or withdrawals? Yes. We have any specific street. So the record 11 Pacific Street? Yes. This is a church or any John Barry on behalf of the applicant. The Bulldog 2nd. We'll check it. We'll check it. Did you say 11 Pacific Street? Yes. Do you have another one too or just one? I have two but I was going to do them one at a time but the second one is 20. Okay. Let's do a specific street for us. Calling B-O-A-935011 Pacific Street. Name an address to the record please. This is Attorney John Barry from the offices. John D. Barry at Fort Naguana at Milton Mass. Where members of the board were requesting one last deferral on this project. We've been meeting with the community since the last deferral. The project's all set. There was not enough time for the examiner to review the revisions that were supplied. And they requested that we requested deferral from the board one last time. I'll make a motion for deferral. Second is there a second? Yep. I'll say it. All opposed. All right. One, two. Okay. Excuse me. Now opposed. We have a Dean of 727 at 1230. Thank you. Mr. Barry, what's the other one? The second one is 2149-2151 to a Chester Ave. Okay. For the record calling B-O-A-111-278-521-29-2151, go a Chester Ave. Name an address for the record please. Again, this is Attorney John Barry from the offices. John D. Barry located at Fort Naguana at Milton Mass. It's this project with the full revision set was provided. Unfortunately, an examiner didn't have a chance to do a full review. And again, we were requested to request a deferral from this board. Now make a motion for deferral. All seconds. All opposed. The second. Hi. All opposed. Some of the Dean will be 727 at 1230. Thank you so much, members of the board. Are there any other deferrals that would drive up to the 1230 cases? 4648 M Street. Mr. Febter. Feel it. Thank you. Hold on a second. Fuller Recky calling BLA-116-1109-4610 Street. There is a companion case BLA-116-1110-4810. Name an address for the record please. Good afternoon, Mr. Chair, members of the board. Richard Lids 245 Sumner Street. Peace, awesome. Actually appearing on behalf of my colleague, George Morancy, who did have a scheduling conflict today. It's not available. He's asked for the furl of this matter. Preferably for late August date. Mr. Secretary, that's possible. So we can make that happen. Is there a motion? Make a motion. I'll be in the panel. Second. Hello, good to have you. Hi. Hi. Hello, folks. Hi. Okay. We have the date of August 31st at 1230. That's late. Thank you. Please, you want it. You got it. Are there any other deferrals that would drive up to the 1230 cases? 167, Washington Street. Mr. Secretary. We have two seconds, Councillor. Will the record, Pauling BOA 105 5809 167, Lexington Street. Same to that, no, it's for the record, please. Good afternoon, Mr. Chair, members of the board. Matt Eckle from Drago in Destana with the business address of 11 Beacon Street. We are seeking a short deferral on this matter. Unfortunately, we lost our architects. We do have a new architect and plans were submitted. They were just not reviewed yet by the plans examiner. I had your found in the architect. All right. Kind of motion. Motion at deferral. Is there a second? Second. All the polls and sayver. All opposed motion carries. Unfortunately, the mistake, the earliest we get you in is July 27th at 1230. Thank you very much, Mr. Chair and members of the board. Are there any other deferrals with Raros, the short 30? We're not able to go back to the 1130. Yeah, we have one more case that is 1130 and we'll take a break, Mr. Forgin. The call is for the record right now. Calling BOA 102 692 0 115 K Street. There is a companion case, BOA 102. 693 715 K Street. This is for 115 K. This is renovations, improvements and minor demolitions for creation of a commercial parking, containing a total of 37 parking spaces for proposed cannabis retail establishment, violations out of 68, 613. The use is conditional. This is for 115 K. K Street. This is a change of oxygen to a telecom service to cannabis establishment retail for recreation and the use and then perform interior foot out existing building. The violation of the 68, 613, subsection 68-39. Cannabis establishment is conditional and article 68, 613, subsection 68-39. Cannabis establishment is accessory uses of office storage is conditional. May I have an address for the record please? Good afternoon, members of the board, Mr. Chairman. This is Mike Ross from the Law of the Supreme so Bell, business headers of one international place. Here on the phone with Charlie Young, the director of operations and of Holland brands and Herbie DuVanay, our security consultant of Windwalker. The master, if you can just pause, maybe go back two slides. I'll just kind of walk through this way, right there is good. This is a proposal for an existing industrial building which is located in a local industrial sub district of the South Boston neighborhood district, which is a conditional use. The building is self-contained. It's a fenced-in area with approximately 36 park and spaces on the site. Next slide, please, Madam Ambassador. The building is on the outer edge of the South Boston community. Pretty much on the edge of the peninsula, if you will, with direct access to summer street to the area and back out through summer street. The proposed facility is now within any buffer zone. No schools, no parks, no playgrounds, or places where children commonly congregate, which I know is a question that we get sometimes from the board. Next slide, please. The building is surrounded by industrial uses, including a giant ever-sourced transformers station that surrounds two sides of the building. You can see the transformers in the photo there. Next slide, please. I also just wanted to note that our Oracle 68 does encourage this type of commercial use and a job creation type use. This we anticipate about 20 jobs will be created by this facility. The digital context photos of the next three or four slides. What they show is an area that unlike many of the multi-story buildings that are around us, we are not increasing the square footage of this building in any way, shape or form. We are merely renovating the building and to allow for this new use. You can go to slide 12 and that's the footprint and that's probably the best slide to hang out for one second. Two more slides, if you will. Right here is great. Thank you, ma'am Besser. So, I mean, if you look at the building, the building might look large at first sight, but a closer look, if you see that lower right-hand corner of the space, we are going to give away one quarter of this building. With its own separate entrance, it will not be a four-canibus use. It will not be a use that we determine. It will be a use that will be determined by this community for whatever they want to use that space for. The other half of this building, you'll note in the gray area, we're going to bring our deliveries directly into the building. So, there's a delivery day within the building. It's probably most important. There's an internal line queuing area. So, rather than having people queuing outside the building, any kind of queuing will be inside the building. The building is really designed to get people in and out as quickly as possible, even the restrooms are at the front of the building in the line queuing area. What you're left with is a retail area, the yellow, which is less than 3,000 square feet. It's 2,700 square feet. And what you have in the parking area is approximately 36 spaces to allow for no traffic issues outside the area. And at night time, we're going to make those spaces available to area residents for free to use for overnight parking. Our proposed hours of operations will be 9 a.m. to 9 p.m., Monday through Saturday, and then 10 a.m. to 7 p.m. on Sunday. There's some additional rendering drawings that you could and ambassador just quickly scroll through that show kind of the elevations. There's that bay area door that I mentioned. And the other elevations, there's an interior shot as the next slide just to kind of give you a sense of what or rather actually plus you have a second. You can see that the site is well buffered, intending to prevent any type of nuisance, any type of issues. You really don't see into the site today. It's been like that for a long time. You're not going to see into the site tomorrow. There's next slide. We'll just show you kind of what the inside will look like. And then just the final two slides just to make the point. We've had a long time to go through the community. I know there's a lot of interesting people in this community in particular, and they care very much about their neighborhood. We've spent over two years engaged in a community process and dialogue. We're proud of the 200 letters of support we've received for this project. We are aware of the fact that this community did vote well above the average of the city of Boston, 70% to support this to support cannabis in this area. And finally, we just want to note that we have had 35 individual meetings with the direct with direct butter as well as area residents, near-nate road associations has taken a position on this particular project. We feel like we're in the best location in South Boston. I'll point there, Mr. Chair to see if you have any questions. Okay, thank you, Mr. Ross. So the buffering that you've shown is not a rendering. You're saying that's existing conditions? That's correct. The buffer slide, unlike slide 5 around? Yeah, so you say that that's how it is now and how it'll remain. Yeah, we will clean it up. We're going to probably put a good amount of money into the facility, but that's how it looks today. It's a industrial building. It's just wanted to be clear about that because on the first floor plan, it kind of looks as if it's part of the landscaping design, but you're saying that's there now. We will improve it with additional landscaping. So a few other questions. I know you already said it. Can you repeat the hours of operation? Yeah, 90 and the 9 p.m. Monday to Saturday, 10 a.m. to 7 p.m. on Sunday. Okay, and you said the parking spaces, but now you're going to be available to community residents. What happens in 9 a.m.? It's a community resident has moved the car. We're going to work with people. We really don't want to get in a situation where we're going to be toeing our neighbors. Obviously, we don't want to, if they're there every morning at 9, we're going to have to have a conversation. The intent here is to be able to have both uses working in a holistic way. Okay, and the community space, that's certainly a noble gesture. What does it mean practically for the community to decide it's use? Is there a particular organization, an agency? How is that going to get it? Who's going to manage that? Yeah, we've told the elected officials of this community, District City Councilor Flynn, and at large city councilor Flarety, that it's not our decision. It is really a community decision, and we would rely on their guidance in that regard, and we will be with they suggest. And you'll sign a contract with whoever they suggest? Absolutely. The intent of the space is to turn it over in a kind of a vanilla box. And then, I don't know. No, I understand the intent. What I'm asking is, what will the actual application of a B? How will it be managed? What are the logistics? It will be for them to manage. If they need to get relief, they would come back to the board here. How it will be their space, we will paper it. It's something we've committed to the Boston Candidate Board. It's something we're committing to this board. It's something we're committing to the elected officials of this community. It's 4,000 square feet of prime space that we're going to turn over because we simply don't need it. Okay, no, I understand the goal. It feels a little a little fishy right now, but I hope that it will get tightened up by the time this facility is open. Yeah, I mean, it absolutely would. We need a tenant to sub-lease the property too. And once we have that tenant, we will provide a $0 lease to that tenant. And I can represent that to you as a practitioner before this board. Okay, that's fine. All right, and with respect to the other issues, the internal line cumulative, the 27,000 square feet of retail seems pretty straightforward. How are the plans, Mr Robinson? Are the plans are good? No, no, come on though. Okay, any questions in the board? All right, is anyone want to testify on behalf of the project? Mr. Chair, we have several raised hands here, but I... Well, let's do elected officials for the mayor's office. You know what I'm going to weigh in. Mr. Sherman, that Councillor Fleen is on the call. He would like to speak. Okay. Thank you, Mr. Chairman and to members of the board. This site, it's a high traffic area. It's located in a residential part of the neighborhood that abuts the industrial area with vehicles, trucks, buses traveling frequently on the street. The area is developing into more of a residential area, especially over the last five years. The location is not in proximity to an MBTA station or public transportation. Therefore, many customers would like we drive or walk to this location. The added traffic from having the expensive out those locations would disrupt the neighborhood, making the area even more congested. It's a quality of life issue for residents. Recently, many neighbors have reached out to my office and to other elected officials, expressed their concern about traffic speeding at S-350 in other quality life issues. I recently found what the buttons and business owners on these issues not only do this proposal, but the overwhelming amount of development in the neighborhood. Including the recently approved project across the street, at 7.76, which currently spans to add thousands of vehicles trips per day. A lot of counterfees, concerns, and significant passenger and safety issue that I have, I need to oppose this location. Even during this pandemic, cars are going up L-Street and some of the street, significant amounts of speed, 70 miles an hour, going down L-Street, 50, 60 miles an hour. I work every day with the boss and police on this issue, in transportation department. I can't take a chance with these speeding cars and the potential for another accident in this neighborhood. I'm against the proposed project in my residence in the neighborhood. I've spoken out to me and they're also opposed to the project. Okay, we can traminate and thank you, members of the board. Thank you, Councillor. Is anybody else wants to testify either in favor or in opposition? Is Mayor's office on the call? Okay, well go ahead. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon, Mr. Chairman. Now, members of the board, Karen Foley, Council, Nisour Saby George's office, and we want to stand with Councillor Flynn in the abutters and oppose this project. Thank you. Thank you. Anybody else? Mr. Chair, Secretary here. We do have numerous letters of office edition and numerous letters of support, and we also have the letter from the cannabis board. Mr. Chairman, members of the board. Okay. All right. Also, if you see the council at large, we may go clarity. Echoing the sentence of Councillor Flynn, as well as the extensive process that went into drafting, Article 68, the council's approach has been consistent and you cannot support the variance at this time. We'd like to go and record an opposition. Thank you. Okay. The Mr. Chair, we have about 16 handswaves. Just let me know how you want to go about. 16. Okay. Let's take three in support and three in opposition, and they have to be from abutters. So if you were not in a butter, then please lower your hand. Okay. So let's first, let's, so someone in support who's in a butter. Okay. Second. No. Okay. All right. Brian, you've been unmuted. Are you a doctor better to this project? I am. Okay. But I'm opposed. You're opposed. Do you want to go? Okay. Let's get, let's get, we'll get to the opposed. Okay. One second. All right. Elizabeth, are you a director better to the project? I am not on you, but 186 with second streets. Okay. Can you lower your hand please? Thank you. Okay. Kate, are you a director better to this project? I am. Take good ears. I am. Can you hear me? Yes. Okay. Are you in support for the project? I'm in opposition. Okay. We're going to try to get boners in support. If we can't, we'll just move on to the opposition. Okay. Anybody else? Mike, can you hear me? Mike's screen just froze. Can you guys hear me? Yes, sir. Yeah, I just, I go, we can hear you. I cannot select anyone's name on the agenda. Let's get it. Okay. Having some issues with the, we're back. I'm not sure if it's connected to the. Okay. Until that gets sorted out, Tom, can you, can you take over the handling the participants? Second. Okay. Okay, Alison, it's a try to for an opposition. Yes. We're trying to, we're looking for our butters who are in support. We have a lot of people with their hands off, but hi, I honestly have no idea. I can just start picking people. Okay. So one, okay. So I can do that too. I'm just looking at the list now. Kate Gutierrez said she was an opposition, Brian Gray said he was an opposition. Tom Sullivan, are you in a butter and in support? Yes or no? And I am, I am one of the building owners and I am in support. I make a way. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, hang on. You own the building? Yes, sir. Okay, that's not what we're looking for. We assume you're in support. All right, Brendan Albert, are you in a butter and in support? Yes, I am in opposition and it's going to be for the whole house. So yeah, both of them. Then we are running down the names in opposition. We will get to you. I got Kate, Brian and now Brendan. Okay, Lisa Valor, a butter and in support or opposition? Helmet's bowing to the head. I'm going to go right, right down this list because we don't, we've got a long agenda. Calling, using the 36, a butter and a favor or opposition? All are you better, good? Thank you for having me. This is all I've got. We're going to keep going. Blend here and then in a butter and or opposition or in support. Hello. Yes. I'm the attorney for the several of direct about it is to make things easy for you. I can submit to you the full name that are going to speak who are direct about is in non-repetitive. Okay, but are the insuborder opposition? In opposition, but I can now show fire. You want me to give you the full names? No, put them in the chat. Okay. All right, Maria Malone in a butter or in in support or opposition? I'm in a butter in opposition. Okay. I think we look where a narrowing is down. Thomas Callis in a butter or in support or opposition? Yes, hello. I'm full blocks away on Emerson streets and I am in support. Okay. Thank you very much for your testimony. Tyler Murphy a butter and in support or opposition? The ones that I believe are presented at the end. What? Yes. And if you have the one? I can't I can't hear. I'm going on. David Shremm a butter and opposition. I am in a butter and I'm in opposition. Okay. All right, as far as I can see we've gone through the entire list. I've got Kate, Brian, Brendan, Glenn, Maria, and Tyler. And then we have the four names from Glenn Harrington. So I'm going to arbitrarily call on three of you and I apologize if I don't include you, but I'll start with Kate. One can Craig, can you please give your name and address the record and why you're an opposition? Yes. Thank you, Mr. Chairman and members of the board. My name is Kate Gutierrez and also for the record I wish to confirm receipt of the package of materials submitted to the board on May 12th and just to highlight a few points briefly here. Yes, since 2010 I've owned my home at 547 East first. I live 50 feet directly across from the site. The proposed use is inappropriate. The site would have an overwhelming adverse impact on quality of life. The site is located in a local industrial sub district. Former business, the accurate fasteners was a wholesale manufacturer of nuts and bolts since 1960. It saw just the handful of employees, cars, and deliveries per day. Always within traditional office hours, Monday through Friday only. On weekends, the site was entirely quiet. This proposal suggests a radical change in use that will be both more objectionable and more detrimental to the life that we enjoy now. By introducing a high volume 10 cash register retail, establishment no doubt advertised from major highways, the airport and transportation through terminal open seven days a week, nine at night, seven on the front days, deliveries happening during late night, early morning hours. We anticipate sleepless night noise and fumes coming in our bed window. Okay. Okay. I'm going to look at cars talking more. And may I say one more thing, the relative quiet outside our bedroom on nights and weekends today will be gone forever. And we have lived in a low stress, general sense of safety living where we do across from a quiet non-reachable manufacturer. This is a very important surprise for high-strike. No, no, no, no, no, no, that's it. No, we don't have time for a longer speech. Brendan Albert briefly, if there's anything it wasn't mentioned mentioned. Yes, hold Mr. Chairman, my name is Brendan Albert. I live directly across the street 50 feet away. I've been here for 11 years. I wanted to take issue with Mr. Ross who said earlier that there are no parks located near this business proposed site. That simply falls for a hundred feet within the site. There is I Street, ever-sourced park. It's a public park and it's actually part of Boston Hable Park. I take my dog there every single day. We also want to talk about next is just East First Street is already a treacherous road and as long as had issues with speeding as council of fund mentioned earlier. Considering that adding a high volume retail mega market like this proposed will add hundreds of additional vehicles and will have enormous negative impacts on my quality of life. Okay, thank you very much. Maria Malone. Thank you Mr. Chairman and commissioners. My name is Maria G Malone. I live at 525 East First Street. I'm a director of butter directly across the street. I would like to in addition to the points that I made and materials that we submitted highlight the fact that we have 141 direct-a-butters that are in opposition of this proposal. Specifically, I'd like to point out a few things. You know, councilor Ross or attorney Ross has repeatedly represented a number of supporters and if you kindly refer to the details of our materials we submitted you will see that there are a number of false, you know, false. I'm less on less. I'm less on less. I'm not in opposition. No, no, no, no. No, no. No, no. No, no, no. Stop. Stop. I'm not interested in going back and forth between what it's who said you tell me why you're in opposition period and then we need to close this out. Committee on mute her. Mr. Chair. I'm you made an investment into my condo to be a sizeable piece of my retirement. When I made this investment this was to be my forever home. I was drawn to this narrow hood which will be forever changed if you approved this proposal. If you approve this project I will suffer the following. Traffic and cars constantly coming and going from 9 a.m. to 9 p.m. Tonking from cars idling ride shares pulling over and blocking traffic and backups from their parking. Okay, okay. We are repeating what others have said. I appreciate the fact that everybody feels very passionately about this and I know that there are other people who want to speak but basically the same measures of being repeated over and over again. I think we understand the concerns and at this point I'm going to go back to the board and we got to test the money we were looking for and I am going to ask for a motion. Mr. Chairman, could I just to respond to a couple of the items that we have? No, no. I just got a quick question. Go ahead. This is. Is Jeff on? Yes. Anthony from the BPD. When South Boston was re-zoned this was considered in the rezoning, right? This. No, this was done when the cannabis regulations came out that was a separate amendment that affected everybody across the city. So it's a conditional use everywhere except in residential districts. So if this district is in East Boston or do it, I know what you're saying. It's conditional. So it's not something that was originally in article 68. We inserted it through a citywide amendment. Okay. Did that answer your question, Joe? Sort of, but in this district was considered was recently re-zoned and not re-zoned. It's always been local industrial. Like it's. Yes. Okay. Mr. Chairman on that point. Mr. Ross, I think we've heard enough testimony both for and against. I mean, it looked at a motion from the board. I mean, I'm going to make a motion to approve the conditional use of this. Is there a second? Yes. And the absence of a second, that motion fails. Can I have another motion? We need some motion. Sure. Yeah. Yes. I'm happy to just try to provide a little bit more context here. No, no, Mr. Ross, we're done. We're taking this testimony. Okay. Looking for a more Mr. and Jeremy to motion. Is there a second for this motion? We got some rumbling going on again. That's high, Bob. Okay. Thank you. Would you say, Kevin? Motion to deny. Okay. So Mr. Kindle offered a motion to deny. Is there a second for that? No, second that. All those in favor of motion to deny. Hi. Hi. Hi. All opposed. Okay. Okay. How many opposed, Mr. Jero? Mr. Jero is opposed. Who else? Oh, I thought I heard another voice. No, I think Mr. Chair, I think we need to, I heard multiple voices on both. So I hope anybody's muted. That's acceptable at numbers. Okay, let's try this again. All those in favor of the motion to deny. Hi. All opposed. If the only one is Mr. Jero, the motion carries. Okay. It is now 114 p.m. We still have the 1230 hearings. I am going to suggest that we reconvene at 130. Take a 15 minute break. Okay. I said 130. I apologize. Let me quickly. Mr. Robinson. Here. Mr. Robinson. Mr. Robinson. Mr. Robinson. Here. Mr. Okay. Mr. Kindell. Mr. Okay. Mr. Kindell. Mr. Okay. Mr. Thank you for that. Yes. Thank you. Okay. You know, one thing that I know that it's considered sort of good practice to just restate the conditions of the hearing. So let me just do that and then we'll start. I will repeat some of the from the morning. In order to ensure this hearing the board is open to public members of the public may be able to see the public. So let me just do that. And then we'll start with the first question. The first question is hearing the telephone and video conferencing. Members of the public will enter the virtual hearing as attendees. And as with our in person meetings comments and support will be followed by comments and opposition. So we prefer to hear from members of the public who are most impacted by a project that is the individual closest to the project. So if you wish to comment on the P.O. please click the raise your hand icon. And then we'll go back to this platform to raise your hand. Click the participant information icon from there. Find your name. And on the lower right hand side you should see a hand raising icon. Click the icon and your hand will be virtually raised. Click it again. And your hands should go down. If you're connected to the hearing by telephone please press star three to raise your hand. Okay, Mr Fortune. Thank you, Mr. Chalk. the first case can be away 106-8596-1088 Saratoga Street. This is erected an addition and changed our tree from five to a four unit residential dwelling with four vehicles. The Violet Satellite of nine, Section one, reconstructs an extension of an reconforming building. Article 2070-5, this is in the East Boston iPod. Article 53, Section 57.2. Front yard, the corner lot, conforming of existing building alignment. Article 53, Section eight, user regulations, five units removed to four units and the two F sub-dispic. Article 53, Section eight, basement units are prepared. Article 53, Section nine, insufficient side yet setback. Article 53, Section nine, excessive FAR. Article 53, Section nine, number of all our stories has been exceeded. Article 53, Section nine, maximum height has been exceeded. Article 53, Section nine, insufficient rate yet setback. Article 53, Section 52, room structure restriction. Article 53, Section 56, insufficient parking. And Article 53, Section 56.5, the design and size of an overability. Same in that, it's for the record plates. To Dr. D. Mr. Chairman, members of the board, Richard Lanz, 245 Sumner Street, East Boston, we have the petitioner John Bauer. Also with us as Eric Zapperson, it was the project architect. Mr. Chairman, this is a pre-existing two-family dwelling located in Oregon, high section to be spost. And it's located in the corner of Saratoga, and St. Edward Road. I'll try to clarify the record a bit, the secretary had read in the violations. This originally was being proposed as a five unit dwelling. That's why we're back before the board, after a deferral. The project has since evolved and changed and what's before the board is the most current iteration of plans that have been reviewed by ISD. Specifically, we originally were proposing a basement unit. That has been eliminated. The only livable space that is now being posed below grade is in connection with one of the units. And it's a family room only. It's not intended to be a bedroom. This would expand the existing two-family structure you can see here on the photo. We'd be providing an addition to the left that you get on Saratoga Street and providing parking in front of four vehicles. The rendering here shows what the finished product would look like. We are proposing roof decks, but those roof decks would be based upon conversations with the community. We'd be located above the second story of the existing building. The addition that's being proposed to the left would have access to that roof deck that you could see that prior rendering. Each of the units here that are being proposed are roughly small, so around 1000 square feet. They go up to about 18 heard square feet. They are all three bedroom, two bed enough. The violations for this particular project, starting with the use of 2,000 to 4,000 limits the number of units on anyone lot to two. This is surrounded by numerous multi-family as well as the reason for unit building, maybe some six unit buildings as well. The lot area of, this is already a non-conforming condition. 4,000 square feet is required. We have 3640 square feet. Our floorier ratio would expand the existing footprint from up to 1.67. We are cited for height as well. The two F district permits up to 2.5 stories. We are showing a three story addition. I think taking the total of the building and looking at the extent of the addition that we're proposing, we do not propose a full three stories across the property. The existing two-family two-story structure would be maintained only adding roof decks that are accessed by hatch or by sliner. We respect to the rear and side yards, those typically are violations that we see on a corner of lots, depending upon how the building is looked at. And where the front of the building is, currently from Saratoga Street, there is already a non-conforming condition for the rear yard, which is otherwise the side yard to the property of the right. We do set our building back a bit where we're proposing our addition to try to create as much buffer between the rear property line and the up body property to our right. We'll expect a parking, the number of units, four units would require six spaces. We are proposing four spaces that be one per unit of a new viability, I'm sorry, that the design violation of relates to the number of compact spaces that we're proposing as well. In last, but not least is iPod. This is obviously subject to iPod because we are proposing a thousand or square feet of grossed-lay area. I'm happy to answer any questions of the board. Okay, so looking at the site plan, it looks like you're really covering almost the entire lot, correct? So currently, Mr. Chairman, that the existing structure covers a good portion of the lot. There is a garage that is located, I mean, to the left, if you're looking at it from Saratoga Street, that garage would be demolished in the addition that we're proposing would go to the right, that's a place. And what is the distance between the furthest left point of the building as you're standing in Saratoga and both a lot of line and the adjacent building? I believe we can have a setback of three feet. Okay, do you have any idea what their setback is? You think it's also three? The building to our left on Saratoga, I do not believe it's at the lot line, we have enough room to actually put a small fence in as well. Okay, okay, and then the other thing, there's a wide existing curb cut, which according to the site plan is gonna get removed, it replaced by a smaller 12 foot curb cut into the garage. That's correct, is that correct? That is correct, we don't need the width that's there now, I think we can go down as small as 10 feet to access the traffic. The one comment I would make, I would be not, I would be remiss if I didn't, because for the regular chair is the garage door design, but we can leave that for a designer review if this goes forward. Yep, I've already indicated that would be a translucent door. I know it probably not reflected the plan, but that will be included as part of the design plan. Mr. Chair, Secretary here, Mr. Domingo has spoken on this, I'd like to put it in for the record on Friday, May 7th. These comments on 1088 Saratoga Street, the curb cut should be closer to St. Edwood's road. Saratoga Street is very busy, especially during the AM and PMP hours, the location of the curb cut is very dangerous. It is right at the end of the sidewalk and visibility extremely poor, as vehicles enter, especially exit the garage. Also this time to design, we'll put the desk to the extreme peril. It's might in place in audio and visual located at the garage door, as I stated in my previous comments, since the garage door is located at the end of the sidewalk, it still does not protect pedestrians, and danger sets both alarms will not provide enough time for the pedestrians to getting hit by an existing vehicle, especially the elderly and a pedestrian willing a baby or carriage. That's Mr. Domingo's worth for the record. Okay, we will put that in our considerations. Thank you. Okay, so Mr. Chairman, if I get this out, what item Mr. DeBio's comments? So typically the BPD, and I experience the BPD will require us to pull that garage door back so that we inset a bit, so it's not at the sidewalk. That is a typical design recommendation. I don't know if I usually see a BPD. Okay, so this is ultimately gonna have four units, correct? Correct. One of the sizes of the units. Smallest is a thousand square feet, largest is 1800 square feet, and they're all three bedroom. Okay. Mr. Robinson, how are the drawings? The drawings are good. Okay, any questions on the board? Is anyone here to testify on its support of the project? Good afternoon Mr. Chair, members of the board, and I'm mainly with the mayor's office and neighborhood services. We would like to go on the recording support for this proposal. The office of neighborhood service, and I'm two of ours ready for this proposal, where the applicant addresses several of the concerns at the apartment, and we'll receive six legislative support for these proposals. Thank you. Good afternoon Mr. Chair, members of the board, we'll card up a throne from the Office of City Council, but the council would also like to go on the record in support. Mr. Chair, I do have two very fans at no one else here to speak. Okay, Jeff Hampton, did the BPD want to weigh in on this? Thank you Mr. Chair. We had recommended denial without prejudice. That was our original vote back before the project changed. We still hate the garage door as shown. And I know Councillor Lins knows that, but he had already stated to other design reviews similar to this, the door will be translucent and will probably pull the garage door back. Okay, if approved. Good. To know, I was speaking, I don't know if I was muted or not, but Karen Foley, Councilist, I'd be Georgia's office, we'd like to support this project. Thank you. Okay, how many hit, how many race answers do we have? Two so far. Okay, let's go to one. Okay. Dana, you've been a midu, can you state your name and address please? What's your name? It's Dana, Adem Adio, 44 St. Edward Road. I lived four houses down on St. Edward. And I'm in support of this and I'll tell you why you did what the attorney and the developer and they have revised this a few times and our biggest concern was parking. And we had requested a one-to-one parking and that's where we're at. They lowered the height of the building. So I'm okay with it and I just want to give you my two cents. That's it. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, and Lawrence, you've been a midu, can you state your name and address please? What a record? Yes, Lawrence, my name is at 32 St. Edward Road. The director of butter on St. Edward Road to the RPE. I want to go on record saying that I support this project. Thank you. Thank you very much. Okay. Given that, can I have a motion? I'll make a motion to support with BPA's I'm review. I think also, you know, I think looking at the building alignments as it relates to the abutting blue house, I think would be something to take into consideration since it pushes back out to the sidewalk. So I think building alignment, garage door and BPA review, I can make a motion for supporting. Second. All those in favor? Aye. All opposed? Okay, motion passes. Thank you very much. Have a good day. Following your next two cases calling BOA 112, 10831 Waymont Street. There's companion case BOA 1135940, 33 waymont Street. This is the 31. This is a new three story, three family dwelling, to include full of our street parking. And easement via 33 waymont Street, the violation is Article 50 section 43, Austrian parking loading, access monitoring, Article 50 section 29, insufficient lot size, Article 50 section 29, insufficient addition, a lot area, Article 50 section 29, insufficient lot width, Article 50 section 29, insufficient lot frontage, Article 50 section 29, except the Bay of FAR. Article 50 section 29, insufficient use of open space. Article 50 section 29, the front gate setback, insufficient. Article 50 section 29, insufficient side yet, setback. This is for 33 waymont. This is a creative 24 access easement, pedestrian and motor vehicle use, to pass and repass from 33 to 31 waymont for four parking spaces. Violations, Article 9 section two, nonconforming use change. Aimanagers for the record, please. Morning, Mr. Chair, members of the board. Steve Suda, 31 waymont, three Boston Mass. Okay, can you walk us through the project, please? Yes. So it is a three story proposed new construction at 31 waymont street, the proposed parcel we're right in the middle. The project on the bottom was an existing 33 waymont, was an existing four family that's been renovated and completely sold as ownership units. So we are proposing a three story, two unit, filly style units with three beds, two and a half bathrooms and four parking spaces. The use of premises permit does use the access on the bottom of the page currently shown on 33 waybons back spot and then goes into 31 and then also goes into 29 waymont street is owned by a butter. We have all legal documentation in place granting that easement for 33 31 and 29. We've had about six meetings, roughly six or more meetings with the neighborhood over the past year and a half, almost two years in regards to this project. We currently started at six units, then worked our way down per the feedback of the neighborhood and the associations to two units and in four parking spaces. A lot of the issues were addressed where, they thought parking was being taken away from 33, never had the parking. So yeah, we believe this is a very sound project, two units, ownership units with four parking spaces. So these easements that you're describing, they've all been recorded? Yes, sir. Okay, but so there's an easement between 33 and 31 and between 31, 29, two separate documents. Yes, we all have so 33 was owned by us as a separate entity. So all of the current condo owners have signed that. It's all on record. 33, we are the owners of with the separate entity and we worked in conjunction with the owner of 29 wave on street, considering Wabino and wave on street very two way traffic, very crowded streets. So to ensure access, we wanted to work with 29 wave on street to take his current tenants parking off of the street, grant that easement so that his tenants could alleviate some of the parking issues in the neighborhood. Okay, that's interesting. I thought when I saw Wabino street, I thought that was a misfit. I didn't realize it was getting on the way. Okay, yeah. All right, Mr. Robinson, how are the drawings? The planes are good. Okay, many questions, board. Is there anybody here to testify in support of the project? Yes. Mr. Chairman and members of the board, this Jason Gantz and the Paris office of neighborhood services, like to go on record and support of this project, they have held an extensive community process and also accommodated lots of community requests, while also maintaining a relationship with nip butters and taking care of any concerns that they have posed. Thank you. Okay. Anybody else? Mr. Chair, Secretary here, we have no new letters of support or opposition. Okay, are there any raised hands? Yes, there are. Yep. Marilyn, you've been a new to can you state your name and address for the record please? This is Marilyn Chase. Well, we can't hear you, Marilyn. Hello? Marilyn? I'm disconnected. Not sure what happened. I'll call my name. Just confirming, I'm just confirming that you can hear me. Okay, I can hear you now. Okay. Marilyn Chase, I'm an owner at 17 Waibeon Street. I have a question first. So I had received email and I understood that they were looking to put, still looking to put six units on the property. Are they now looking to put two? Yes, yes, two. Sorry, Mr. Chairman, two has been in place for roughly, I believe almost eight months now, maybe longer than that. So we changed the plans from six to four to three to two. Okay, so I am, I came on prepared to be not in support because we have consistently found that the property lot is insufficient for the number of units. But if they're now talking about two units, I still have some concerns at its insufficient, but it certainly is more appealing than the original six units. Okay, thank you very much. Okay, anybody else? Yeah, Mike Mosul, you've been unmuted. Can you say to name an actor so that we're good, please? My name is Michael Klosu, the project, right? To reach you zero, the letter A, blue, and you. We've been working with other Waibeon and other blooding residents in the area. We have concerns about easements to use other properties. And we've had problems with that in other neighborhoods. Now we're concerned that they're taking open space or 33 Waibeon and turning that as an easement, which makes it very congested. So what happens then is that people then start to grow up in the sidewalks and create other fire safety issues. As a result, we're still opposed. We think the buildings too tight for such a small property. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Can I have a motion, please? I'll make a motion to support with VPDA desire review. Well, second. All those in favor? Aye. All opposed? Motion passes. Thank you, Mr. Chair, members of the Board. Calling your next case. Calling VOA105-3337-64-Clockwood Street. This is construction of four new townhouses, the Violation Staticle 669, the use of open spaces insufficient. Medical 60 section 11, the use is forbidden. And Article 66 section 9, the Laudieria is insufficient. And I'm going to adjust for the record, please. Is Rodrick? Do you go to the PM? Sorry, this is Stuart Shire, I represent Joy-Builder, Broderick Ego-Domberry. Paul Joseph was muted. My client originally proposed to build before unit. He went to Greater Mattapan and Greater Mattapan suggested that he reduced it to three. He reduced it to three and we got a new violation notice, which in our case, the violation notice that I have in my hand only listed in sufficient Laudieria. If there are other violations, I wasn't the rare than before this. But the issue here is Greater Mattapan that supported it. One neighbor is opposed. All right. We'll hear about the support community from the mayor's office. We want to talk about this only. Sorry. What's going on here is my client wants to build a three-family house, approximately a little over 1,200 square feet in each unit. These are three bedroom units. They have three and a half baths in these units of each bedroom has its own bathroom. They're three quarter baths, they're not quite full baths, they get showers. And these are nice family orientated rental units and my client wants to do the three family. One of the concerns that he hasn't addressed yet is one of the neighbors thinks that somehow with the pit trough on the attic that he's going to suddenly make it into a four family. So if I read you, the neighbors want us or the PPA wants us to take off the pit trough and put a fire. We'll get to that. We're not going to be concerned with the fears about what we're going to deal with what's on the plans. Thank you. So you've got three units, one of the first, four, one, second, one, third. What's the size of the unit? A little of a 1200 square feet. Okay. And the basement is used for what? Unfinished. Unfinished for storage. Correct. Okay. Which is beyond finished. Okay. And it does appear, I mean, least of the violations that are cited here are open space and sufficient and lot area and sufficient. That's it. And the use is forbidden. So that's the, what is the area's own for? It's a three F6000 zone. All right. Mr. Chair, I'm up, Mr. Chair. Yep. Is this on? Am I reading this correctly? It's supposed to be four? Yeah, no, this is four in town. Not just townhouses. No, it was reduced to three. And my refusal letter is construction of a three family dwelling. We do not have that in my file. I don't have that on my file. Well, okay. But we're going to, I mean, the drawings reflect what Mr. Driver is, Yep, is proposing. So we're going to go ahead. Okay, and it's speaking in which, how are the drawings, Mr. Robinson? The drawings are fine. Okay. I'm there. It shows it three families. So that's where we are. So yes, yes, it does. That's what you can't say. So yeah. Yeah. And if you look on the first and A1, it's got the zoning, dimensional regulations and it's in compliance on everything, so minimal, a lot area. So that's correct. Yep, I agree with that too. So yeah. Okay. All right. Any questions on the board? Is there anyone here to test to find support? Good afternoon, Mr. Chair and members of the board. My name is Don St. Eples, my office, Mayor's Office of New Boot Services. We would like to go on record and opposition of this proposal for the reason of resident concern, including adjacent on the street issues and that residents were not notified of the changes to the proposal. Thank you. There were notified the changes from four to three. Correct. Is that true, is that true, Mr. Traver? No, in fact, in fact, greater Matt Pann knew about the four to three. We contacted the Mayor's office and asked them for their help to get in touch. They've spoken to the neighbor. He's denying that he has been informed that it's been reduced from a four to a three. He's seen the plans. In fact, there was okay. Okay. Okay. Okay, show them the plans. Very good. All right. Is there anybody else to testify either in support or opposition? Hey, man. I just wish I do have two raised hands of no one else. Mr. Javitsong, are the plans that we've been looking at at the area are going to stand by ISD? I'm sorry, I couldn't hear that. No. They have not been, they have not been, the plans I have have not been stamped by ISD. Yeah, so those, if the plans examiner has not reviewed the new plans that they have properly brought to court. Oh. Okay. Well, that would have been nice to know a few minutes ago. That's the verdict. I mean, I'm taking position, I always take, which is we can't approve something that has not gotten to us for going through the process. So I'm going to ask for deferral. Well, now I say one thing. I'll make a motion for deferral. Sir, second. Second. Oh, welcome, favor. I, I love those. Okay. Thank you. You have a date of July 27th at 1230. Thank you. All right. Next, on the next two cases, calling the LA 115571210 Ruthford Park. There is companion case, the LA 115571171 Ruthford Street. This is for Ruthford Park, assigned two-wash free parking spaces, parking one and parking six. From the parking spaces, six parking spaces located at the rear of 71 Ruthford Street to the property of 10 Ruthford Park, an auxiliary parking space that had created no accessible parking on the main drive of 10 Ruthford. The violation of Article 156 and 43, law of free parking, and auxiliary office free parking uses conditional use. All car space shall be entirely located on a lot of the space and it's intended to serve. This is for 71 Ruthford. This is a first law reconfiguration extension to an attic floor with dormant, a total number of units remains the same, six large free parking spaces and a rare property, three for 71 Ruthford and three for 10 Ruthford. This is for violations, Article 9, Section 1, extension of non-conforming use conditional. Article 15, Section 29, the flow of the ratio is excessive. Article 15, Section 29, the height requirement is excessive in stories. Article 15, Section 29, head is excessive in feet. Article 15, Section 29, use low open spaces in suspicion due to the six parking spaces. Article 15, Section 29, side yard with access driveway cannot be left in 10 feet wide. Article 15, Section 44, the side yard with access driveway cannot be left in 10 feet wide. May the man address for the record please? Good afternoon, Mr. Chairman, members of the board, attorney Derek Small. Okay, this is just 51 dobs in row. Okay, thank you. Now, we're gonna do this a little bit differently. This is the third time we have, we know have this discussion. Mr. Agarro and I did a site, is it last week? Okay. So I have a series of questions. I have Mr. Agarro has questions as well as opposed to walking through the process one more time. So the buildings, the 10 Ruthford and 17 Ruthford have common ownership, correct? 10 Ruthford Park and 71 Ruthford. You talking about 10 Ruthford Park? Yes. 71 Ruth, yes. Okay, and they're, they're, they're, there's just recently completed. They're still in the construction, in some ways, right? Yep, that's correct. Okay, and there is right now a chain link fence with the game that runs across from 73 to 71 blocking access from Ruthford Park to the rear of one of the parking areas. That is correct, that is for protecting the property. Yep. Okay. Now, when I was there, I mean, so one of the issue all along has been that apparently there is litigation currently underway. And is that with the owner of 73? That is correct. I have, I have co counsel, Sammy Nabucci online represents the owners with regard to the easement issue in court and he can speak to that. Sammy, if you're wrong. Yes, he is, he's on by calling, he was having some connectivity issues, but I think he was on call of 46 in second. Okay. Okay, well here's what I want to understand. I want to understand what the nature of the litigation is because the easement, the driveway is currently not wide enough unless there is a negotiated easement. There actually is, if you look at the line, under the words Ruthford Park, where you've got the data there, that line going left to right halfway as I assume a lot line. And if you go from the edge of the building in 71 to that lot line, it appears to be 10 feet, but you've got a sidewalk there that got built, it's two or three feet. So there's no way that there can be direct access without an easement being created and agreed to. And it seems a little odd to be honest with you that it's gotten this far in the process and that the building is like 95% complete. Well, I don't know what the interior is like, you couldn't see, but without this issue being resolved. So I think for us to make any kind of decision about what needs to happen, we need to understand the nature of the litigation. Yeah, can folks hear me? Yes, yep, yes. Great, this is thank you Chairman and members of the board. This is Samina Bolfee. I'm litigation counsel to the owner of 71 Ruth and Street and 10 Ruth and Park. And I'm representing the owner in the land court litigation arising from the use of the easement. Just to put in perspective, like what we're looking at. So if you're looking at the plan that's on our screen here, there's this driveway, for lack of a better term, I guess, that is titled Ruth and Park. That dark solid line that kind of runs through the middle of it towards the southwestern we have, it starts to kind of diverge a little bit from the middle. Those are the actual lot line. But if you see up against each of the properties, so if you see up against the building at 73, the building at 71, and then a few feet from the building at 10, there's this dashed line. The dashed line on both sides is actually one shared right away for all of the properties. 71 Ruth and Street, 10 Ruth and Park, 73 Ruth and Street and 75 Ruth and Street. So the driveway for 71, it's not accurate that it only goes from the dashed line to the solid line. All of these properties have a common interest in the right of way, which is that entire distance from the hash line along 71, that dashed line along 73 Ruth and Street, extending southwestern we I believe to. Excuse me, the dashed line in 73 is actually inside the building. Okay. Okay. The dashed line runs right alongside the edge of 73, right? Exactly. It doesn't go in the building. I don't know to what extent. Okay. No, no, no, that's that's fine. So my point is that when we were there and we measured it out from the dashed line to the dashed line is, you know, it's plenty wide for it driveway. It looks like it's 20, 20 feet or less than 20 feet, maybe 15 to 20. But the solid line between the parallel to those dashed lines is less than 10 from either one of those dashed lines, meaning that without an easement between them, you don't have enough width for a driveway. So that is, so the reason that's not true, and I guess that's also in part the subject of the litigation, is there isn't easement that exists. It is a paper right of way. What it is, is it is a, it is a right of way that is the, the middle that, that solid line of the middle is not part of it. The, the right of way is the entire width from dashed line to the, yeah, okay, no, or you understand. So tell us what, what, please tell us in a spare way of possible. I know you're a litigator, but what is the nature of the litigation? That's absolutely fair. I will, I will, I will frame it as objective as possible. Thank you. So the, the right of what, the right of way that is recorded is a shared right of way for all of the owners of the properties you see in this plant, 73, 75, 71 and 10. The right of way provides that all of the owners have a, have a right of, you know, use, passage, and you know, open, kind of open to the sky, I suppose, in the interest in the whole right of way. The, the nature of the dispute is, initially as proposed, we had three parking spots along the retaining wall at the end of the right of way. So that on that south left early end. Okay, okay. Yeah. Yeah. Initially at three parking spots, the vehicle facing the, essentially facing the retaining wall, it could be backed into it. Along, along the right of way, based on those parking plans, the owners of 73 and 75 filed a lawsuit in the land court. My, the allegations as I understand them is that the placement of perched, permanent parking spots on the easement obstructed kind of the use and passage over the right of way. In the complaint itself, I do believe it's there. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. This makes for me that an example is, you know, partiallySI is briefly GallicManu confirmation. I mean, I think what that is circulating to me is that the territorial развитions would be, but I think so. I think it's a great match for our nature realm, it's grazing the surrounding str also clearer, you know, a great presentation. That's aags, So, yeah, I think that is long as the parking spots aren't over the dotted line, then are not infringing on the e, then the easement for cars or people or whatever to access. So, I don't necessarily see why we couldn't approve parking spots. I don't think that single handicap space, I think that's a no go because that's in the easement. But the easement's recorded, it's there. And from a lean use perspective, I don't see why they, I mean, we get a grant relief for it, but I don't see why parking on their own property is an issue. I have a leaped to it and they have the legal easement. I agree, Mr. Vajillo, and that's why we moved all of the parking to the rear of 71 Ruthbem so that there's no obstruction in public space. Okay, so we have to wait. Okay, Mr. Smoll, we got that. So now all of the parking spaces are to the 71 side of the dash line, which is where the easement is. So why has that not ended the litigation? So this is a turning to both of you again. The decision to file the amended parking plan, solid the last meeting, I think the hope ones to also perhaps, I think we thought maybe there would be some feedback forth coming, following the site visits. So this has been a recent change. You know, to be honest with you, counsel for the plaintiffs and I have not conferred about whether this does resolve the litigation, my sense is that it would because the crux of the complaint is a claim. Okay. Okay, okay, I think we know what we need to know. So Mr. Chair, I think that you had spot on. I think if we entertain a motion that approves the plan with the elimination of the handicap space, I think that gives the authority to do that. So you want to be? Well, man, we need to have testimony first, don't we? We haven't made it. Well, we've been through this one sucker a whole bunch of times, but okay, is there anyone who wants to speak on behalf of the proponent? Mr. Chairman and members of the board, this is Jason Gantt from the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. We'd like to go on record and support of this proposal. They've gone through an extensive community process and met with the Garrison Charter Neighborhood Association specifically around parking numerous times and that's one of the main concerns that direct the butters and neighbors of that. They've also addressed any other concerns that came about as well, but like I said, parking was the main concern. Okay, thank you. Anybody else? I do have a caller. He was a caller 44. You've been a muted. Can you state your name and address for the record, please? My name is Betty Tony and I'm the chairperson of the Rock Green Neighborhood Council and I would like to go on record first saying that what was just said in terms of extensive neighborhood meeting is disingenuous because the neighborhood was then and still is against this project because it has not been worked out to a reasonable point. And then in an addition to that and a very upset because I've been waiting for this, I've had so much trouble on you and in addition to this and getting on the video. In addition to this, if this boy moves right now again because they pulled the first time, this is premature, especially while it's in litigation. Even the office building going on, it's just not with business. So I'm just letting you know that we vehemently oppose the legality of this appeal and the variance and the dangerous, dangerous factor of this appeal. But if you can state the actors as well, you didn't state your address. My address is 20 Alpine Street in Rockbury. Okay, thank you very much. I found the Rockbury. Okay, we just suggest a reminder that we are not ruling on the merits of the validity of 71 Rootsman and 10 Rootsman Park. Those projects, all we are doing is limiting our decision to the parking places. That's it. That's the limitation. And it appears that they are not part of the right of way. And in that sense, the litigation does not apply to the concerns that are before us today. That's incorrect. That's incorrect if I may. My name is Michael Duffy, Tom Adafson, Duffy 100 Cambridge Street, Boston, Massachusetts. I represent the director of butter is at 73 and 75 Roothford Street. And I should tell you that you've only been discussing one half of the litigation that's currently pending in the land court. There's also a case in which the variances that were granted for 10 Roothford Park, which include parking variances are under appeal and are being challenged in the land court currently. And the proposal before the board right now is to amend those to accommodate an additional change. And it would be impromptu for the board to do that before the court resolves whether the original variances that were granted for the project in the first place are going to be upheld. Well, okay, but we're not dealing with the original variances we're appropriate or not. We're dealing with a very narrow issue here, which is a parking spots and given that they have been moved into the outside of the area of the right of way assuming the handicap space is eliminated. Then the concern that we have about the litigation has gone away. I have no opinion whatsoever on the merits of the litigation, one side or the other. Now we'll play itself out. I'm just saying that what is in front of us is a very narrow and restricted issue. Yes, Mr. Erlin, if I may, York absolutely correct. Chimbleford Park was approved in May of 2019. 71 Roothford Street was approved on October 6, 2020. The only issue before you today is the parking plan. Okay. Okay. And we're not revisiting the original approval. Exactly. Nor are we to take the opinion one more another on the ongoing litigation. Exactly. Parties involved to sort out what we are talking about today is just the six parking spots that we're talking about. So unless there's any other tests, come on. I do have additional testimony. I'm sorry. They've been waiting for a while. I apologize. Connie Forbes, go ahead. Can you stick your name and address me? Yes. Okay. This is currently on. Connie, I'm sorry. You were muted. I apologize. Can you step over by saying your name in it? Is that better? Oh, go ahead, Connie. I apologize. You'll be able to state your name and address, please. Yes. Connie Forbes, 47 Wombick Street. And this is not only about the parking issue. This change in the plan took away all the green space. It also allows parking for 10 Woothing Park on 71 Woothing Park's property, which is fine. The current owner remains a current owner. But if these are condominiums, there will no longer be the owners of this property. And then that will generate part of me. The need to deed these parcels over because they're not deeded as of right now. In addition, you're picking about access. That space, we're concerned about access by emergency vehicles, especially. I'm glad they did move the head of the cap parking off the easement that we asked literally before. It seems to still be on the plan. But access by emergency vehicles is very important. And turning it around, the ability to maneuver in there. This has never been reexamined after the plans were put in these plans. Because where's the green space? We asked basic questions. They did not come back to Garrison Toronto, the emergency association, to discuss these issues that were generated after they changed the plans. And I don't believe the ISD reexamined because, again, the iron violation of other issues and it's a condominium. Then you're saying that the owners are the same is only true until they become condominiums. So I think the arguments that is owned by the same person is irrelevant because they were considered separate parcels. Okay, thank you. Thank you. Okay, anybody else? Yes. Karen Foley, Boston City Council at Nistra Savi George. And we want to see what the about is in the civic organizations in opposed this project. Thank you. It's got a project. It's just parking. And my co-sul, you've been unmuted. Can you stay today? I'm an address please. And it is Michael Cose, the project right 328 will have you. We have issues with the parking design. We had issues with them going ahead with the construction of the parking without waiting for the appeal process go through. They've eliminated the green space behind one property. We'll be fine then when they do that then they take part of safety issues. They start grilling out in the middle of the street and sidewall. Okay, yeah, issues about the emergency. We heard this before. We're looking for our butters at the moment. Okay, anybody else? No additional waste hands. Okay, then I'm going to ask for a motion. I'd like to make a motion to approve with the provisor that the handicap space is shown be eliminated. Yes. Is there a second? I'll second that. All those in favor. Aye, aye. All opposed. Okay, motion passes. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, members of the board. Have a good day. I'll call in a last case of the day calling BLA 115 9723 180 to 190 high-pock Avenue. This is building at 180 190 was is a commercial commercial space currently is three little compared to a four change of use space. To remain retail, change retail food service cafe. Illegal services in community outreach. The violation of 55 section A user regulations. I'm going to ask for the record, please. I just am a little bit brief and my at my address is 89. I'm a true street. The person who's representing us today is Brian. We call he's been on this little time. You just got kicked out. Are you are you back on yet, Brian? What's his name? B.J. We call or Brian. We call he's been on. Yeah, I did. I'm going to go ahead and have B.J. Represent. Thank you. Mr. Chair and ladies and gentlemen, not a panel. Yeah, we were just denied our project for use regulations. It's a project that 180. I'm going to go ahead and have B.J. represent. Thank you. Mr. Chair and ladies and gentlemen, not a panel. Yeah, we were just denied our project for use regulations. That's a project that 180. 190. Hypergavidate. Okay, so why don't you describe what you are, what your intentions are? Yeah. There's another drawing. The current. Drawing of the building. It's that one that area. So currently the first unit on the left side, where you see it's got a half wall. That is a market. The second unit, 184 is currently occupied. We're working a process of putting a church in there. And the third unit. 190 is currently a saloon, but because of COVID, they're not operating out of that saloon right now. Just, they had to abide by some of the regulations and have chosen to work elsewhere for now. So what we're proposing at the unit at 180 is going to be sub delighted into two separate units. Where those stairs are, and that wall is, is going to be built up. the current tenants have already built that wall. So 182 is currently vacant. 184 is semi vacant like we've we're in the process of finishing renovations for the church. But also in that the back of that unit, the the the room with the double doors, that's going to be housing an immigrant connection site, which is going to offer affordable legal services for immigration. So if you skip to the next plan, the next page. This is what we're proposing here. And we do realize that it's a very small space, but we're trying to make the most use of it as possible for unit 182 and 184. As you can see in 184, the office in that back corner, that's where the legal services will be happening. Then Sunday services will happen in the man room where you see the rows of chairs. We do realize it's very local capacity and because of COVID, right now the capacity is pretty low as it is. And then finally in 182, the smaller narrow unit, that's where the coffee bar will be and actually Amanda Oipro, she's the owner of the public coffee company. And that's what we'll be going in there. We do have in the drawing a wheelchair accessible washroom. And there is currently four tables with three seats at each table. That could change. Like we do realize it's a very tight spot where it's hoping it's just an offer a good place for people to sit, sit their coffee, work on a computer. Okay, so you start this up. Let me have a few questions. Who owns the entire building? Maria Tapalas. And I don't think she's on the call. She's an elderly lady. No, no, no, that's fine. That's fine. So the uses are all tenants, correct? Yeah, and the use right now, the legal use is retail? No, no, I understand. I'm just saying the proposed uses are all tenants. The owner. Okay, so you've got a market on it at 180 more remain retail. Two is changing retail to food service cafe. 184th change in the retail is a church. And well, it says 180, but it's 190. That's remaining retail salon. So the so 180 and 190 are unchanged. Right, right. And in fact, the current tenants are staying in there. They're just the 80s just downsizing their space. Okay, so 184, you mentioned it's only a church. We're actually hoping to change it. Like we were forbidden for legal services, which is going to be an outreach, public church that's going to happen in 184. Okay, so right, this is a question of use. Yeah, okay. And is the are the tenants for 182 and 184 the same? They're not. No, they're separate entities. So there's separate entities. Okay, so it's for separate entities. Okay. Yeah, all right. So this is a question. Strictly, there's no other zoning violation. There's just a question on yes. Yes. Okay, fine. And we have gone through a couple of neighborhood meetings. Yeah, we'll get to that. We'll get to that. Sure. Okay. All right, Mr. Robinson, how are the drawings? The drawings are fine. I guess I'm just reviewing the proposed uses. So do you need relief for the legal services? Because that does not appear to be listed. It is listed and we do need relief for it. Okay, it's not listed on the drawings. So I'm looking right. If you can look at the upper right hand corner itself, 10 in 184 religious church but no legal. So I just want to make sure we're getting that if we need to get that. Or it is if you look on a drawing in the middle of one unit 184, it is written in that header, some header. Yeah, I just want to make sure the board understands that. It's so we should make sure that's clear. And then I guess my other question is, you know, I have a bit of a disdain for grates and exterior aesthetics. Is there any proposal to update the outside? And potentially I would love to see the grates removed. And I think there's a mirror on the other side. And it's a great building. I think it's awesome. I'd love to see it upgraded a bit. Yeah, we're actually waiting on the city for that too. There's a like a street scape re-vamping process that's going on. And it's all all those grates are going to be removed. And it's going to be pretty modern loving. Thank you. Okay, questions. But we don't have any visual. We don't have an elevation showing the exterior doing. No, no, we haven't. Okay, but we certainly can put the design review. Yeah, I guess that's okay. All right, is there anyone here to speak on behalf of the proponent? Yes, good afternoon, Mr. Chair, members of the board. My name is Lucy Sianciana from the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. And a buttersmeatless proposal was held on February 11, 2021. And many of butters were supportive and excited to have this in JP. The applicant also received the support of the Jamaica Plane neighborhood council. So the mayor's office would like to go on our current support. And we're also excited to have them in our community. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, for noon, Mr. Chair, members of the board. This is Peter Fevredo from City Councilor Maddowell, Malley's office. And the councilor also like to go on our current support. Thank you. Good afternoon, Karen Foley, councilor Savijouj's office. We'd like to go on our current support. Thank you. Mr. Chair, members of the board, all solid. And it's the councilor's life, Michael Plyar, and the councilor's doing our current support. Anybody else? Anybody else? Can you raise hands? No, Mr. Chair. Okay, can I have a motion please? Motion, approve. Do we want, even though this is strictly abog used, we want to have the BPD design, or do you look at the exterior? I mean, if it's going through the means, is it going through the Main Street's program? I assume they'll be involved. Anyway, but that's what it is. Yeah. So I think it's probably not required if they're getting funding through the Main Street's. Yeah. Okay. Okay. So there's a motion for approval. Is there a second? Second. Second, it's starting. All those in favor? Aye. Second. All those opposed? Aye. Motion, did I hear an aye? Did I hear someone say they were opposed? Okay, could I, Mr. Chair? I think it's a delay. Okay, I think it's a delay. I think you're right. Well, that's, I'm feeling delayed too. Very good. Thank you very much. The meeting is adjourned. Thank you. Great job, Mr. Chairman.