 you you you I stick a little forward. This hearing is being conducted on open meeting law, including the provisions of an act extending certain COVID-19 measures adopted during the state of emergency that was signed by Governor Baker on June 16, 2021. A new law allows the board to continue its practice of holding virtual hearings that it adopted during the COVID-19 pandemic until January 1, 2022. This virtual hearing is being live streamed and recorded via WebEx. The in order to ensure this hearing of the board is open to the public, members of the public may access this hearing through telephone and video conferencing. The information for connecting to this hearing is listed on today's hearing agenda, which is posted on the public notices page of the city's website, Boston.gov. Members of the public will enter the virtual hearing as attendees, which means you will not see yourself on the screen and you will be muted throughout unless administratively muted when asked to comment. As with our in-person meetings, comments and support will be followed by comments in opposition. The order of comments is as follows. Elected officials, representatives of elected officials, and members of the public. The number of people called upon to offer comment and the time for commenting will be limited by the chair as time constraints require. For that reason, the board prefers to hear from members of the public who are most impacted by a project. That is, those individuals who live closest to the project. If you wish to comment on an appeal, please click the Raise Your Hand ICOT in the application via the WebEx event platform. To raise your hand, first click the participant information ICOT. From there, find your name and on the lower right hand side, you should see a hand raising ICOT. Click that ICOT and your hand will be raised virtually. Click it again and your hand should go down. If you are connected to the hearing by telephone, please press star 3 to raise your hand. Again, those on the telephone, please press star 3 to raise your hand. Those called upon to comment will be asked, state their name and address first, and then provide their comments. Please, if you have other people who've spoken before you, please give us new information. Otherwise, put your name and address on the record and please tell us if you are just basically in support or in opposition. In the interest of time and to ensure that you have enough time to do so, please raise your hand as soon as Mr. Fortune reads the address into the record. Do not raise your hand before the relevant address is called. Or the meeting host will not know the call on you at the appropriate time. Just a reminder for the applicants and the attorneys and other agents that might be representing them. In your presentation, please talk about the project. We will hear about the community review process from either the mayor's office or the elected officials. Let me take a quick roll call, Mr. Fortune. Good morning, manager. Good morning, Mr. Erlec. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning, Mr. Regiro. Good morning, Madam Chair. Good morning, Miss Panato. Miss Miss Panato on. Miss Veda Barrazo. Good morning, good morning, Chair. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Is Miss Miss Don is not on yet. Miss Panato, are you on? I can see your Madam Chair. I just can't hear her. Okay, I need to just know that she's on and that she does not have issues with being on this meeting. Madam Chair, it looks like she has a problem with the view. Not view. Okay. Let's give it a minute until she sorts that out. With that assumption, I am assuming that this will be a six member board until Miss Don arrives. That's informing all applicants that to get an approval, they need five of the six of the seven. What is it? Five of the six board members to be in support of the project. Okay. Mr. Hampton, are you on? Good morning, Madam Chair. Good morning. Please let me know when Miss Panato is on. We can't manage her. It looks like she just had its audio issues. Is the team on the right? time I guess we can just go ahead with the extensions. Let's see with the extensions and then we will return to minute with let's start with the minute approval and then go to the extensions okay and then let's hold for the hearings until we know Miss Panato is certainly on. Okay thank you Madam Chair. The first daughter of business would be the April the hearing minutes of January 11th of 2022 we need a motion. Motion to second. All those in favor? Hi. Any opposed? Motion carries. Miss Panato can you hear us? Can you give us a thumbs up if you heard that minutes? I don't think she can hear us at all now. Well let's go ahead because I think what these are relatively relatively easy ones so let's go ahead in the meantime I'm relying on Tom and the team to make sure that she's has the ability to not only here but also be heard. Okay on the two extensions I'm going to call it into the racket and then I'm just going to ask the applicant to put their name and address and then I'm going to read what the totaling is. So Ks B O A 7 7 3 8 5 8 6 Evelyn Street naming address for the record please. Dance 1 red 6 Evelyn Street. Thank you sir. 6 Evelyn Street the board originally granted this relief on February 2nd of 2018 which means that it expired on February 2nd of 2020. That the last the board granted the first extension to relieve in 2021 one year until February 2nd of 2022. So trolling does not apply to this relief because this relief expired prior to the COVID state of emergency that began March 10th of 2020 and the board did not grant the extension until after the state of emergency began. The applicant now requests their second one year extension of relief. I recommend that the board conferred that the trolling does not apply to this relief and then evaluate the applicants request and grant an additional extension of the board determines that one is warranted. So Mr. Webb can you tell us why you're requesting this extension? Yes so and then we require the extension just to get additional financing to continue on with the project and then we were impacted by okay with banking kind of freezing down we actually towards the end of last year got a partnership and so we're able to carry on with the project and we just personally think the extension. Because as of today this project and our relief for this project has expired so we need you to keep an eye on this and also be aware that our approval is not a pocket approval that goes on indefinitely so we will be expecting progress to be made on this. Given the state of COVID and people's inattention to some of the details let's can may I have a motion for a one year extension on this? The move. Is there a second? Garden. All those in favor? Hi. Any opposed? Motion carries. So please please keep a keep a note of this okay Mr. Webb? Yes I will thank you. Following an next extension calling B.O.A. 1 0 0 8 3 1 7 94 Alexander Street. Name and address for the record please. Adam Jaspin 53 Thomas Park so Boston. Thank you sir regarding 94 Alexander Street the board originally granted this relief on January 31st 2020. This is the applicant's first request for an extension this relief would normally expire on January 31st 2022 however tolling applies to this relief with tolling the new expiration date of relief is May 8th 2023 I recommend that the board confirm for the record that this relief does not expire so that date and the applicant may return and to request their first extension necessary. May I have a motion to that effect or confirming that? I'll make the motion about chair that the relief does not expire until May 8th 2023. May I have a second? Thank you. All those in favor? Hi. Any opposed? Motion carries. So Mr. Jaspin please make sure that you may progress on this since you do have an extension until next year. Ms. Panato can I confirm that you're on? Yeah can you hear me now? Yes we can can you and you can hear us clearly so that's I selected. Okay and Ms. Dung is still not on so this is to remind everybody that this is a six-member board and you will need five members to be in support for your project to proceed so let us know if you're uncomfortable with that and would request the deferral. Madam chairman I call the 930 hearings for you the deferrals of withdrawals if you can give me the address first please. Hearing none I'll call the first case calling BOA 1 2 6 7 4 3 3 2 19 2 2 25 main street this is an installation of a new roof deck the violation is Article 62 Section 25 roof structure restrictions name and address for the record please. 2 23 main street and I'm Philip Seema representing the owner Puerto Rico a Scully. So please tell us briefly what's being proposed? So we are proposing a 683 square foot roof deck on top of an existing mixed use three story building there'll be some exterior power and storage bin that will be associated with it this is for the exclusive access of Puerto Rico on the top floor it'll be accessed by spiral stairs this is consistent with another roof deck that's on the building or the adjacent neighbor and we've held back the the location of the roof deck such that is not visible from main street from the from the farthest and non-main street to the top of the railing. So have you are you was this a recently built building here or is this an older building? I think the building was built within the last five to ten years so it's relatively new. Okay and do you know if that was through appeal or if there were any restrictions on that roof deck? There were no restrictions again the neighbor has a roof deck that is quite similar to what we're proposing you know the violations were that were slightly above the allowable height. Okay. Setting back on the main street. Miss Subbeda Baraza how are the plans? Well Madam Chair I don't see any structural drawings or any architecture drawings of the roof deck. This is the only plot down in plot plan that I received. So drawings are not adequate. We do have drawings that were submitted that's a full set so unfortunately if you don't have it you can't get it. Okay may I ask Tom if we hold off on this one is it possible to help that loaded on and then we can proceed with this case? Madam Chair I'm not sure if the plan to examine or has reviewed them of the hearing we have one here stamped the plan to be under assayed as a plot plan. I can look at the at the file and our system and see if we have additional stamp plans. But usually we set them all over. May I ask you this that this is a did you say it's a three-family building? It's there's there are four units in the building and then a commercial ground floor it's on this is a three-year. We're on deferral until the next meeting please. Madam Chair I'll make a motion deferral before we do that just so we don't waste our time. I could the applicant describe what the access to the roof deck is he said spiral staircase but what does that mean? So yeah on the plans are on the screen there is showing the proposed biopsy spiral staircase this leads from the existing deck off the back of the building to the roof deck. So it's an exterior spiral staircase. Correct. Okay thank you. I'll make a motion deferral second. Baraza second. Those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries the date is February. February 8th, Madam Chair 1230. Okay thank you. Calling your next case calling the OA126804307 to 211 Congress Street. This is no construction they need to remove the proviso violations at the six section four other protection conditions. Name and address for the record please. This is Sam Harden 211 Congress Street I'm James Grimes Business Partner. So tell us what is the name of the business and have you had experience with take out before? Yes the name of the business is better bagels we currently have a location in the seaport at 83a seaport Boulevard where we are primarily take out. Okay how are the plans and the subbedder? I'm chair there plans to adequate. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition of this proposal? Good morning. Hi. Good morning Madam Chair and members of the board. I am Shulant Wong from the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. We would like to defer to the judgment of the report on this matter. No concerns were raised by a butters or a local city associations on this. Thank you. Thank you welcome. Miss Ambassador anybody else with raised hands? There are no raised hands, Madam Chair. Okay Mayor. May I make a motion to approve with the usual take out for rise up? Thank you. This apple can go on. Is there a second? I can. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. You're all seconded those for visors. Thank you. Well in your next case calling BLA 1261420210216 Lincoln Street. This is a change of arc to include microblading, body out establishment, the violations out the 44th section 10, the microblading, body out of establishment, use this conditional. Any additional directly please? Mr. Wang on I believe. Mr. Ambassador did anybody check it for this project? No. Okay let's move on. Yeah. Yeah he's on I'm here. He's under Miss. But yes I'm the I'm my name is last name. Wong W. N. T. First name. Hongjiang. I'm. Okay please put your name and address on the record and tell us. Tell us what's being proposed. Okay my last name. Wong W. N. T. First name. Hongjiang. The location is 210-216 Lincoln Street. Boston. It was to one one one one. Actually I just the one the neighborhood member I speak to me. I need more more time to set up. Uh, uh, uh, one here. One here multi tell what I'm doing. So I need this. Okay just let me ask you. So this is, um, this is an existing spa is it? This is the existing spa. Yeah. Okay and you're just adding two, two microblading seats. Is that what it is? Yes, yes. We have we already have 16 the room for this service. So okay. Uh, how are the plans, uh, Mrs. Uh, Miss better? Madam chair, the plan to adequate. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak and support or an opposition of this proposal? Hi. Um, good morning Madam Chair and members of the board. I am Chew lamp warm from the mayor's office of the services. We would like to defer to the judgment of the board on this matter. I apologize, but I don't have any further details about this case. And we'd like to defer to the judgment of the board. Thank you. Welcome. Good morning, Madam of the issue. Members of the board and a calendar from Councillor Flinx office. Please know the Councillor is opposed to this project based on feedback from neighbors and the leather district neighborhood association regarding the lack of community process council president Flinx would like to see more outreach so that neighbors are able to learn about the proposal and engage with the proponent. Thank you. Okay, so this is a, uh, uh, Miss Ambassador, any other raised hands? There are no raised hands, but I'm sure. Okay, this is a minor accessory use which we've been seeing more of. Um, may I have a motion but one that includes continued outreach to the community? I'll make a motion for approval, um, with the barizoe that I'll reach to the community. It'd be, it'd be made to inform them of the new venture. Thank you. Is there a second? Welcome. All those in favor? Aye. Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Mr. Wong, please make sure that you reach out to the community and to the elected officials. Thank you. On your next case calling the OA1278630748 East Broadway. It's a constructing new four-story building with nine residential units. First floor retail and combined lots of 748 East Broadway, 750 East Broadway, 65 L Street and demolished all existing buildings. The violation is I-68 Section 8 insufficient lot. So I-68 Section 8 excessive FAR article 68 Section 8, the building headed successor, article 68 Section 8, insufficient use of low-pin space, article 68 Section 8, insufficient front yard setback, article 68 Section 8, insufficient side yard setback, article 68 Section 8, insufficient very out setback, article 68 Section 8, insufficient additional lot area per unit, article 68 Section 33, OSTV 5, including article 68 Section 34.2, traffic visibility across the corner, and article 68 Section 8.3, dimensional regulations, the location of the main entrance, name and address for the recognize. Madam Chair, members of the Broad Attorney Ryan Spitz, Adams and Marancy with the business address of 350 West Broadway. My colleague, George Marancy, is handling this actual proposal unfortunately. He is having a very difficult time logging in so if we could ask for a later call on this proposal, he's going to try a new computer now. Okay, let's move to the next project. Thank you. Following the next project, calling B-O-A-124-9462-324 to 328 West Broadway. This is on a vacant parcel, a reckoned new five-story mixed-use building, two commercial units and eight residential units with front and rear roof decks, and elevated. The violations, article 68 Section 29, roof structure restrictions, roof decks are proposed, article 68 Section 33, OSTV 5, and loading. Article 68 Section 34.1, the conformity with the existing building alignment, article 68 Section 8, 40, Aratio is excessive, article 68 Section 8 to Bill, and has excessive feet. Article 68 Section 8, the usable open space, is insufficient, article 68 Section 8 to Ray God's interpretation, article 68 Section 8 to Laudierrius and sufficient, and article 68 Section 8, the additional Laudierrius is insufficient. The name and address for the record please. Yes, Mr. Secretary, Tim Johnson, architect 599 East Broadway. I apologize Madam Chair, I could not get on earlier my clients, respectfully requesting a deferral. We still have some comments with the neighborhood to work through and we need a little bit more time. May I have a motion please? Motion to defer. Is there a second? Okay. All those in favor? Any opposed? Motion carries. The date please? May it be February 15th at 1230. Thank you, Mr. Secretary, Madam Chair. I apologize. Following the next case, calling the OA124-6711-593-595-25-AllmanE Street. This is directly a new nine unit multi-family dwelling with great parking and roof deck, proposed retail on the ground floor. The violation is article 32 Section 4, G caught after the ability, article 64 Section 16, the floor date ratio is excessive, article 64 Section 16, the bill and height is excessive, article 64 Section 16, the rate is insufficient, article 64 Section 36, mastery parking loading, article 64 Section 36, mastery parking loading and loading is insufficient, article 65 Section 15, a multi-family dwelling use condition. May I have just for the record please? Good morning Madam Chair, members of the board. Mark LeCasse, LeCasse Law 75 Arlington Street in Boston, with me at the hearing today is the project proponent Andrew Bersard, ABRE Capital and our architect, Kachial, Julian from Stack & Company. This is a proposal to raise an existing two-story building at the corner of Albany Street and East Canton Street, which currently houses or formerly houses the Ohio Center. The building is in serious disrepair and is under currently violations from ISD regarding instructional stability, and I can talk a little bit more about that with respect to the dealings that we've had with the South End Land Marks District Commission on the proposal to raise the building. Assuming that the- Hold on a second. Christian are you on? Yes Madam Chair, good morning. Good morning. We have Christian Semenali-Boston-Grower Trust and we have both the Boston Water and Tour Proof and No Harm Litter. Okay. Madam Chair, we have those letters as well. Okay. Madam Chair, this is Tom. I'm going to be honest with you on this point. And can she hear and has any she unmuted? Because I think I just got a private text and somehow WebEx is not allowed to meet your response to her that she needs to be unmuted. I made her a panelist that should be able to roll out her point. Ms. Dong, are you on? Yes, now it works. Okay, excellent. Thank you. So this is a full member board. So let's- please proceed, Mr. Johnson. Oh, please- Sorry, Ms. LaCos. That's okay. Yes, so we've tackled one conditional use permit on the G-Cod. The second conditional use permit relates to the multifamily residential use. This is- The economic development area. South, some district of the South Bend, in which the additional use is- Our- I'm sorry, which multifamily residential uses are conditional. However, the context of this neighborhood is that there are large number of residential buildings, including adjacent on Albany Street and behind on East Ken Street, the new Smith, very large residential development. So please, talk to us about the rear yard insufficiency and the- and the off-street parking and loading. Yes, so the rear yard insufficiency relates to the existing condition of the building, occupies the entirety of the lot and is a 2,693 square foot lot. So it's not a very large lot. At the rear of the property, there's a 20 foot private way called Thorn Street. That is shared ownership with the adjoining property. So there's the 20 foot private way at the back of the building and the one of the two entrances to the parking garage is along the rear of the building as well. The parking and maneuverability, there are two entrances to two separate garage components. There's one on the side of the building on East Ken Street and there's one on the rear of the building along the private way, Thorn Street. We are working with Public Works Department on the size of the curb cut on East Ken Street to address the maneuverability and that will be a part of the continuing design review you can see here. There's two separate component parts of the garage, three cars at the rear with one entrance and then the four shown on the side of the building with the entrance on the East Ken Street side of the building with the retail space at ground floor and the residential lobby entrance. The proposal is for four one bedroom units of 1,000 square feet, four two bedroom units, 1,432 square feet each, and one three bedroom unit of 2100 square feet. There are two roof decks, one is private roof deck for the top floor unit and the other is a common roof deck or the other residential units in the building. These would be condominium ownership units. The height of the building occupable space is 69 feet which is below the maximum limit of 70. However, the mechanicals and the access points for the roof decks exceed the 70 feet and exceed the 330 square foot maximum for mechanical spaces to be excluded from the height. So it's the mechanical systems on the roof that trigger the height violation. Okay, and other than the common roof deck, do you have, are there any other decks related to the building? Yes, it's very contemporary design as you may have seen in some of the elevations. Each of the units have small balconies to provide the required usable open space for each of the dwelling units. Okay, and these are overlooking Albany Street. There are some on Albany and there are some on East Kent Street and I believe there are a few in the back of the building as well. So the, I guess my question is, on Thorn Street, how close, and I know it's a private way, but how close is the building on the other side? The building on the other side is the Smith, which is a large 10 story residential project. There's some buffer there, between this, here's Thorn Street, private way, and then the next building over is Smith residential building. Okay. Okay, so the parking requirement is that you have five, four, eight, nine residential units. Are you proposing any of them be affordable? There are no affordable units in the proposal, ma'am sure. There's no good faith in proposing one of those units be affordable. That has not come up during the process. Okay. Okay, how would the plan to miss a miss better? Better to the plan to add it quick. Secretary, Mr. Demiko is welcome. I'd like to put it in for the record. Where? 7, 595 Albany Street. He says remove two spaces located on the upper left of the plan. Five three vehicles at a 60-degree angle for proper maneuverability. The two vehicles should be 8.5 by 20 feet. Since there are meters on the side of the street, the maximum width of the curb cuts should be 20 feet. The outfit should notify the office of the parking clerk to reform them regarding issue and potential of the parking meters. Okay. Thank you. Any other questions? Yes. I just, I have a question. These units seem very large and we're at nine units. Has there been any discussion of making the units smaller and increasing the units and getting some affordability in that? I'll let Andrew Prasad proponent address that. I mean, the size of the units is related to a lot of the discussion for larger units. The two bedrooms are nice at 1400 square feet. The one bedrooms have the plus den for home offices at 1000 square feet. And again, the lot size is tight. Yeah. I mean, yeah, it's true. I mean, what I'm agreeing with Mr. Rijiro is that in fact, you're maximizing to the to the extent possible the use of the space, the entire lot to end and taking away certain X number of meters on on on East Canton and providing very little in return. And so, you know, the question becomes, what is the possibility for having one of the units split up in some way to create an affordable unit? Andrew, you want to weigh in on that please? Yes. Madam Chair, thank you for the question. Yeah, we looked at this in a number of different ways. We don't believe that the units are excessively large. 1000 and 1400 square feet approximately for eight of the units. We are promoting at this location a opportunity for stakeholders to be attracted to the building for families or long-term use and ownership, given the condition of COVID-19 and need for more space, the desire for more space. We felt that this was the best configuration for the property. Also, being a very constricted space, the access for the Stereocannases corridors to access the units in elevators, there will be significant loss of usable space to be reconfigured to more smaller units. The way I'm looking at it is that, you know, if you take a couple of those one bedrooms and decrease the space somewhat, you can reach different, you can actually create an additional unit. But I'll leave it at that for now. Any other questions on the board? Well, I'm not even sure if we should leave it at that. I think this issue of seeing nine unit projects is a way of skirting the obligation to deal with affordability in the city that is desperately in need. So I got I have a problem with proposal. I'm happy to have this deferred to a later date so that there would be some further discussion on that might be possible. May I have a motion on that? Motion to defer. Second. All goes in favor. Any aye votes? Who's opposed? But Hans better. Okay, motion carries. The date, please. We'll have a date of you can do Mach 8 at 1230. Okay, we'll see you then. Thank you. Thank you. Following the next case, following the OA 126 2944 302 to 316 both the street. Just a removal of a viso takeout granted to the petitioner only. Violation. Article 7 section 4 other protection conditions. Name an address for the record. There are Mr. Read on our ID. I do not have a Mr. Read. Okay, we'll go back to that one. Following the next case, calling the OA 1277205 60 church street. This is the legalized existing driveway for proposed curb cap. The violation is on the 65 665-41.5. The parking size of the new ability. Article 65, section 9, side yards, and sufficient. Article 65, section 9, the reggaard is insufficient. Name an address for the record, please. My name is David Sixty-Gerstein. Article 181.233, please. Yeah, whoever is presenting can you get closer to the mic so we can hear you. So please tell us what's being proposed. We can't hear you. You need to get closer. We can't hear you at all. It's muffled. We're looking to legalize an existing driveway. There is a when the owner bought the property in 2001, there was an existing driveway there. We're looking to propose curb cut until legalize the driveway since 2001. Please give us some more details. This is number 60. How many units in this building? It's an existing three family home and there's the driver has been used for the last since 2001, 53. Please, you're here to legalize it so we need information on the driveway. Tell us the width of the driveway, the depth of the driveway and how many cars you're anticipating parking on that If you scroll up to the first page, there's the diagram showing that there's three spots, there's three spots at 8 foot 6 by 20. If you zoom in on the proposed cycle in there, please. It's getting blocked by the, but it's the same as the existing, all we're doing is just adding a proposed curb cut there. Okay, um, okay, how would the plans miss, um, miss better? Madam chair, the plans are adequate. That's okay, I miss the Demiko has spoken. It's like to put it into the record, please. Yes, we got a 60 church street to propose driveway would be located on a curb and the width of the street space would make exiting the driveway very difficult. Also, since there would be three vehicles back bumper to bumper, it would require the two vehicles behind the car. The other rear of the house to be moved out into the street in order to allow this vehicle to exit the property. This would occur on a regular basis, therefore, he requests an aisle. Okay, um, can you tell us, um, if there is currently parking on church street, I'm asking this of the applicant? Uh, currently there's, there's one, this parking on one side of the street and it is in a three-family zone, so there is a lot of parking in there, or there isn't a lot of parking on the street. And the applicant has been using this in the past. Let me ask, let me ask you, is there parking on this side on the number 60 side of church street? There isn't. So you wouldn't be taking away any sploster. We would just be adding the three. That's there. Okay, excellent. Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition of this proposal? Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the Board, Denise DeSanswell's here from the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Service. At this time we would like to defer to the board. This applicant did meet with the proper community groups and direct the butters and they do have direct the butters and, um, community leaders support. Thank you. Uh, Madam Chair, can I ask a question with the applicant? Yes, just hold on one minute, Mr. Oleg. I just want to see if there's anybody else who wants to go on the racket. Madam Chair, you have one raised hand. Mr. Ambassador, did you say you had one more raised hand? Yes, I do. Okay. Amanda? Go ahead, Amanda. Turn me to the email. This is Joe McGeckon with City Council Frank Baker's office. We're at support of the driveway. Madam Chair, members of the Board. Thank you. Okay, I'll go ahead, Mr. Oleg. Looks like we just, I'm sorry. Well, I missed a bolster with the driveway. The existing with. Oh, I tend to afford it. And, and so you're saying it's currently used, what people just drive over the sidewalk to get in now? I mean, what has been used since the violation that you've cited, but since 2001, I'm the haven't used it as, as a driver. Okay, and what's the size of the proposed curb cut? Oh, I tend to. Okay, thank you. I'd like to make a motion to approve. Go ahead. Could I add an uprovisal? Yeah, I like to add that you reduce it to two car spaces. Is that about, okay, Mr. Regira? I guess. Okay. That's a second, Ms. Better, all those in favor? Hi. Hi. Any opposed? Any opposed? Motion carries your approved with for two spaces. So please make sure that the one in the rear is eliminated. Madam Chair, would you like me to go back to the other two because the next one is a cannabis? It might be a little while before we. Oh, yeah, sure. Okay. I'm going to go back to Bowdoin Street, BOA 126294302-316 Bowdoin Street. Are you on? Mr. Ambassador is Bowdoin Street on? Okay, let me go back to the first case we call, Mr. Spitz with Mr. Maranzi. Mr. Maranzi on? Mr. Sayonette on? I'm going to call it into the record calling BOA 1278630748 East Broadway. We'll go through the violation one more time here. This is a contract the new four-scorey building, nine residential units on the first floor retail space and combine lots of 748 East Broadway, 750 East Broadway, 65 L Street and L Street demolish all the existing buildings. The violation is article 68, Section 8, Information Lot Size, article 68, Section 8, Excessive FAR, article 68, Section 8, Building Hyde Excessive, article 68, Section 8, Inc., open space, article 68, Section 8, Inspecion Frontenade, Headset Back, article 68, Section 8, Inspecion SideDod Setback, article 68, Section 8, Inc., Radio Setback, article 68, Section 8, Inspecion, Additional Law Diary for Unit, article 68, Section 33, Austrian Parking and Loading, Article 68, Section 34.2, traffic visibility across the corner, and Article 68, Section 3.3, dimensional regulations, the location of the main entrance. Amen, Agis, for the record please. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is George Marancy. I'm an attorney with the Business Address at 350 West Broadway in South Boston. I represent Joey, our carry, who is the owner of the property. Dennis Greenwood from Suicide Design Architects is also here. Madam Chair, members of this address sounds familiar in the project. Sounds familiar. It is because it has been with this boy before. Last year, it was approved by the board with the ground floor restaurant. However, it was then discovered that there was an era with the advertising. It came back a few weeks later, and it was denied by the board at that time again with the ground floor restaurant. My client has removed the restaurant and is now proposing essentially the same project. Nine dwelling units above a ground floor commercial unit, undefined commercial, as it now holds something that would be allowed by code. The law is 4,500 square feet. It's low feet at the. Mr. Marancy, let me just get some clarification. When was this approved by the board the last time? I want to fix. Hello. Hello. Am I being heard? I can hear you. I don't know what just. Okay, now I get here. I don't know what happened. I couldn't hear anything. I did respond to the chair that I think it was approved. It was June of last year. Are there about? Madam Chair, we can't hear you. That's great. I don't know why I went on automatic mute, but let me see if I can get this right. So everything as far as the building is concerned, as far as the violations of the concern, everything is the same. What was there? So besides the restaurant and the conversion of the restaurant from the proposed restaurant to the retail is the only change. That is correct. Were there any provisers put on that approval? Well, the approval was subsequently undone because as I mentioned, it was just. Let me just let me go back. Were there any visors put on that approval? Design review. Design review. Okay, and then sequentially it came back because of the restaurant use. It came back now because I had two hearings and I believe notices for one hearing went out to the addresses of the other project in vice versa. So both this and the project on Dorset Street and Dorset Street came back for a second time. Dorset Street was re-approved. This at the second hearing was denied. There was quite a bit of objection to the restaurant at that hearing. Okay, I'm just trying to figure out. So I do think we need to get full testimony on this then. Okay. So how would the clients mess better? Let me go. Better chair the plans are adequate. Any questions from the board? Mr. Marancy, can you give us the breakdown on the unit sizes? Certainly. I just mentioned that it's a 45-hundred square foot law and it's located in the corner of L and East Broadway which puts it in an MFR LS multi-family residential local service district. There would be three floors of three units each above the commercial space. There would be six one bedroom units and three two bedroom units and all the units would range in size from 970 to 1054 square feet. So again that includes six bedrooms and one bedroom in the three two bedrooms. For our emergency emergency people are talking about it? Yes, certainly. Got the person doing our hearing presentation that picked out on the web back so the clients are not presented. Currently playing a couple of minutes later on. Sure. Okay. In the meantime let me find out is anybody here to speak? Ms. Better I did ask you about the plans. That's correct. The plans are adequate. Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? I'm Adam Chair, members of the board, Haley Dillon, Mayor of the Soft's Neighbor Services. We'd like to defer the vote to the board. We would like to put on record that we do have letters of support as well as opposition and we do have letters of support from the Civic Association in this area, Gita Heaven. Thank you. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board and a kind little councilor, Flint's office. There is no councilor Flint, Flint's in support of this project which proposes to construct our new two-story building with a nine residential units and for an unespecified commercial space at this time. The councilor's support is based on feedback from neighbors and the support of gay of parent neighborhood association. We have been informed that the proponent has worked with neighbors in the Civic Group being good space to address an offer of concerns about the original proposal. And eventually they were able to arrive at a compromise of the areas such as the high-of-the building, not reviews from 45 feet to 42 feet 11 inches as well as five foot set back created in the rear. However, the number of units who are reviews from 11 to nine with not text or group text. In addition, the proponent has committed that they will work closely with the Boston Transportation Department to add this location to its list of rental properties in the eligible for residential parking ticket which will help alleviate concerns about adding additional residential vehicles to the existing parking difficulties in the area. We acknowledge that while these compromises have gained the support of some neighbors at the Civic Group, opposition remains for other neighbors in the area. But, Councillor Fling supports thanks from the proponents willingness to work with all estate holders and it is the Councillor's desire to see them continue to work together with their partners, neighbors and both the Gays and Propeller neighborhood association and City of Pong neighborhood association of Pong and Eel's family concerns. Thank you. Madam Chair, minutes of the board, Paul Sullivan, the Council of Large Microflarity. Council of Flare had consistently opposed zoning relief on the article 68 but he recognized the new conditions existing along East Broadway. This part of this consistent, thung going redevelopment occurring along Stoke Boston's main commercial thoroughfares. The developer reduced the unit count, the building site, agreed to residential parking restrictions and removed the restaurant component. If the product is approved, Councillor encourages the proponent to work closely with the buddies and be allowed to address any concerns. Thank you. Madam Chair, Secretary, here we have those letters that the mayor's office spoke of. So let me ask people who are here to speak in and please give us new information. So go ahead, Mr. Master, please get the rest of the people on. Perfect. I have three raised hands. So, Angelique, you've been unmuted. There. Angelique. Angelique, please state your name and address for the worker, please. My name is Angelique Horazi. I am 764 in Broadway. I will look you diverse up from this property. I am in the city of Newport, New York City. Are you in support or in opposition? I am in opposition to this project for some hair reasons. Popularification is not given to residents on this Broadway between own and for the virtual community meeting held on December 6th, 7th, 3rd, PM. Moreover, the Zoom meeting that was on the market, the nation was not valid, the actual code was wrong, for the preventing participation in the community. So the thing that I'm concerned about or that I'm interested in is that this is a project that has been seen before and from what I can gather, the only change from previous presentations is the change of views from retail to restaurant. From, sorry, reverse from restaurant to retail. So your opposition continues from the previous proposal that you had seen, right? This is correct. Okay, may I hear from any other? If I can elaborate. No, hold on, Ms. Horosi. I see two other raised hands. So may I hear from them too and please ladies, give us new information. And sorry, up to these next speakers, give us new information. Luanne, you've been updated. Go ahead and state your name and I'll just for the record, please. Luanne? Yes. Can you hear me? Yes, I can. Okay, Luanne, O'Connor, six-shifting terrorists, President City Point Meabalhood Association. Good morning, Madam Chair and Board. Mr. Morancy is correct that this project was put before you and there was major objection to the restaurant portion of this. The proponent agreed to take out that component. However, the 3000 square foot space still remains and it's still questionable in so far as what that will become in the future. There was also objection, however, to height and density for nine units. The proponent was good enough to reach out to the City Point Meabalhood Association for our meeting and do the presentation. They had already had a ZBA date schedule. So, please just get us to the point of besides height and density. Are there other issues? Yes, keeping in mind that height and density is very important right now. There are three structures that need to be torn down. That's absolutely true. We want something on that corner. However, we want something that is going to fit in with that major intersection. Currently, I have a City Point Meabalhood Association has an email into the City of Boston asking about the legality of that parking program that is being spoken of. I have to know whether it's legal. So the transport parking. So it's parking, height and density. Okay, thank you. And aesthetics. And the aesthetics. Okay. May I have the next speaker? Please next speakers give us new information. Yes, my grade. Are you on? Caller number four. I believe he's muted. He needs to be unmuted and he raised his hand. Yeah, I, but somebody said I can't see him on the job zone anymore. So, the blue-and-the-blue is the applicant for both streets. He's somebody getting taught with him to tell him to be ready for his presentation. But let's go on. He's been on this whole time. You know, okay, so next person, please. Okay. I believe you've been unmuted or you've already been, although one second, sorry. I'm not. Sorry about that, Harry. This is Eileen McNeil. Am I on? Go ahead. Yeah, go ahead. I'm on. Hi. Good morning, Madam Chair. Eileen McNeil, 766 East Broadway. I'm solidifying the concerns that other butters had around communications about this project. But also this is a high visibility, high traffic area. We have three bus lines that go down Broadway and then two that stop, oh, excuse me, one that stops on El Street, which is where this corner is. So, significant development and large scale project development here will significantly impact transportation as well as parking. This neighborhood has been impacted by parking because curb cuts have been put in between El and M Street on Broadway, as well as Starbucks on having 15-minute parking in front of it. So, we continue to be impacted as well as the development that is next door to this building that is involved with the same developer on El as curb cuts that also have taken away parking significantly in this area. So, I think that that as well as the affordability of housing. Yeah, I feel like they're scurrying nine units. Go for nine units at the size that you're going for. Why not 10 and make sure that something is affordable in this neighborhood? Hey, may I hear from the next person? Harry? Yes, okay. My name is Harry Carthieckin and I'm 744 East Broadway. I think that there would be one full day after the student book there. And I think that the other projects that Mr. McCarrie has done have benefited the community of South Boston. So, I think that it's a benefit to the community. And I'm sorry, what's your address again? 744 East Broadway. Next door. Next door neighbor. Okay. Okay. Mr. Ambassador, anybody else? Yes. There are no more raised hands. I... Oh, it's awesome. Excuse me. Hello? Yes? Hello. I'm sorry, my name is Dan Luzartrick. I've had my hand raised. Okay, Dan. Go ahead. State your name and address. Thank you. Please, thank you. The name is Dan Luzartrick. I'm at 724 East 8th Street in South Boston. I am opposed to this proposal. And I want to point out to you that this corner of Broadway and Elle... Hold on. Very... Hold on, Dan. We have had issues that have been raised by I mean and Luan that include parking, pipe density, and the corner of this of this proposed project. Are you giving us new information? We have it on record that you're opposed. Are you getting any new information? Yes, I believe I do. Okay, please put it on the record so we proceed. Okay, well the building itself will be surrounded by bus stops. There's a bus stop on both Broadway and Elle... We have... We have heard that from one of the previous speakers. Yes. Yes. I mean... I'm sorry. I... If you just let me say just one or two more sentences, I think you'll get to my point. That there is no off-street parking on this in this building and there's no off-street loading area. And therefore there will be ubers, amazons, rub hub, and other delivery vehicles that will interfere with these bus stops and it'll make the traffic congestion problems at this corner that much worse. Thank you. Okay, given that information, Mr. Moran, is there anything else you need to add? I don't think so, Madam Chair. Okay, so obviously the top position is report. Okay, so that's what I'm going to add. Let's go ahead. Hello. Can we just stop? We've heard from a lot of people. This is the third time this project is before this board. Can I just have a motion to put things in support and opposition? Let's proceed. Madam Chair, I'd like to put for a motion of Denon without prejudice to allow the applicant to work more with the community on issues that relates to. Parking and also program of that retail space. So what I think what I need to understand is that we have two community groups here. Somnican Clarify is at year from Councillor Flynn's office because we have gate of heaven that's in support. We have city point that's in opposition. We have a butter-swarring support. So I kind of need to understand who is closer to this project. And may I hear from either the council's office or the mayor's office on this? I wish they share a woman. This location is specifically the gate of heaven in your association. Please support the proposal. Okay. It is close proximity to the city point as well. Okay. Okay. So, okay. I don't know if that has an impact on this better, but for clarification. I would like to put forward the motion of Denon without prejudice to just talking a little bit more time to really work with the community on retail program amenities that benefit the community. Is there a second? I'll second that. All those in favor? I don't. I. Any opposed? Madam Chair, I have three raised hands. Motion carries. Okay. Let's move to the next project. Please. Please. Mr. Reed is on from both. Mr. Reed on? Yes. Hold on two seconds. Hold on. On case BLA1262944302-316. Bowden Street. This is a move for viso for takeoff granted to this petition or only the violation out of 7 section 4 of their protectional conditions. They may not address for the racket. Yes, good morning, Madam Chair members of the board. My name is Mark Reed. Three ten boarded streets. We don't just go. And so tell me. My first name is the homing bird. What's the name of your restaurant again, please? Can you get closer to your mic and tell us what your restaurant is? The name of the restaurant is the homing bird. Okay. And do you have experience running takeoff projects or restaurants in the city of Boston? Yes, Madam Chair. Try to do yours. Yeah. In this, you're not in the suburbs, right? No, I'm in the city to map. Okay. How are the plans miss better? Madam Chair, I have no documents for this project. Okay, mr. Reed. Madam Chair I have no documents for this project. Okay, mr. Reed. Madam Chair. May I have a motion, please? A motion for deferral. Is there a second? I second. We'll have a date of March 8th. That's 1230. Excellent. Mr. Fortune, can we hear if there are any... I wait, what are you hearing? 30. Can we hear if there's any withdrawals for 1030? I can do that, Madam Chair. I'm going to call the, it's now 1036. I'm going to call the 1030 hearings for withdrawals or deferrals. If you give me the address first, please. Mr. Fortune, I have two matters. This is George Morancy. 120, these are related matters. So you may want to call them together. 127 Bolton Street, 152 West Third Street. Okay, thank you for the record calling BOA. 115, 3857, 127 Bolton Street. There was a companion case, BOA. 115, 3868, 152 West Third Street. Amen, address for the record please. 20 Madam Chair, members of the Board of the Names, George Morancy. I'm going to turn it into this address. 350 West Broadway, I'd like to request a deferral in these two matters which are related in order to continue with community process. May I have a motion, please? Please, please. Motion for deferral. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Are the date plates? Mr. Morancy, one of the communities meeting again? You can... If I... We can go into the March... We can go into the March states either the 8th or the 22nd. March rate would be adequate. Okay, we'll make a motion for March 8th at 1230. Okay, we'll see you then. Thank you. Are there any other deferrals that would draw us for 1030? Address first, please. Think that's that, Madam Chair. Okay. I'll go to the last case for the 930 hearings. So, it's BOA 864, 804, 17A Street. This is on the rare lot of an existing auto body repair shop, placed for shipping containers in order to cultivate and grow cannabis and let us on the site. The violation, Article 53, Section 24, screening and buffering. Article 53, Section 23, the Ray Yadda's insufficient. And Article 53, Section 22, the cannabis and the staff which enters a conditional use. Name and address for the record, please. Sean Cuny, 77 on street and I'm the petitioner. Okay, so tell us what you're proposing to do. Our proposal is to put a cannabis cultivation facility in addition to the existing lettuce cultivation facility at 50 Condor Street in East Boston. And it is. How's that hold on? Yes, who I was running the slides, can you zoom in, please? Yes, so go ahead Mr. Cuny. Yes, the it's 50 Condor Street, which is part of a through lot. So that the what is being considered the back lot is actually the frontage of the space. Our lease is for 50 Condor Street for approximately 2,000 square feet, running 100 feet along Condor Street. There are currently four shipping container farms. That are our place there under allowed use of Article 89 and have been in existence there for approximately three years. We've finished our post community agreement with the city of Boston. We've got support from Lydia Edwards, Adrian Madara and the East. Well, we'll get all of that. Your year to tell us about the project and the reason why we shouldn't be considering it. Okay. Thank you. Yes, the project is converting the use of two or three of the containers that are currently there on Condor Street to cannabis use. There the basically is a zero frontage use. The majority of the use from 130 Condor Street down to 46 are all zero frontage zero setback use such as on for on Condor Street. It's about your proposed hours of operation and is it three or two because we need to have clarification. We know that there are four shipping containers on site. Give us the breakdown of lettuce versus cannabis. It will be three cannabis and one lettuce. Okay. And so tell us about the hours of operation and pick up and delivery, all those kind of issues because across the street looks like there are residential uses and will all these traffic come becoming through Condor on a street. Okay. The hours will be pretty much seven to six availability there will be no night access unless there's a technical problem that needs to be fixed, which there will only be one person fixing it. There pick up and deliveries will probably be less than once a week. There's no retail access and it would mostly be a delivery setup where the product would be delivered either to dispensaries in Boston, manufacturing facilities in Boston or around Easter Massachusetts. So there's there will be no excess people going in and out of there. And how many staff do you anticipate being on site? I anticipate initially there being about six people on site. Okay. And what other uses on this site? For me just cultivating a lettuce. Okay, so tell us about the auto body repair shop. The auto body repair shops have access to the site from the Nayspeed side. I have no, no, no, I don't work with them at all. And they all come into the Nays street. Okay. Okay. Okay. Let's see what else. I don't know enough about cannabis cultivation, but will there be drying or other kind of processing on site? There will be there will be drying and packaging of the cannabis on site. It will be done in each individual unit. There'll be no movement from one to the other. There in accordance with the CCC rollings or regulations. There are order controls that will be in place. There are access controls that will be in place. And the plan is to basically add a screening of the units from the street with CCCersiding to the units to actually increase making more pleasant, even more pleasant than it is, compared to what it was before the units were there. And where will your staff be parking? The staff will be parking on either on Condor Street. I can lease space on the Nays street side and they can come around. And there are I think three or four NBTA lines running 200 feet away on, on, on, median street. Okay. How about the plans, Ms. Better? Madam chair, I wish the plans were a little bit better. I guess the only substantive part is that there are four trailers right there by Condor Street, across the street from residential uses. Right. So these trailers are existing, right? We're just converting. They are existing. So we're converting the use. What is security for the trellis scene? The existing security is fairly minor because we're growing a lot of spare and the threat. And we've been growing less in these costs for seven years. There's been no cases of break in. We're well connected in the community. The difference for, the difference for cannabis is that there will be biometric locks put in and the actual doors will be, you know, fortified. So that people can retract trays, unit outs can be traced. They're what they're touching and the facilities can be traced. But that's the difference. The units are core 10 steel, aluminum, aluminum and stainless steel. Break in is really just a question of access to the doors. Okay. Miss Vetter, does this, when this is low health? Yeah. So this is located on Commando Street. And does it have to be located there? Can it be located at the rear? Close to the Nays street where it's more industrial use. It would be difficult to locate it there. It would, it would basically cut off the access for the other people who were renting there. Okay. I think my question is. Right. The neighborhood is okay. Hold on. We, we are looking at it from a land use perspective. How did you get your trailers in and the first place regardless of whether it's lettuce or whatever the growth is that's going on and there? Did that come before this board? No, it's an allowed use under Article 89 for industrial land. So the. So the only thing that's triggered is the conditional because it is a marijuana. Okay. Okay. And can I ask another question and your of voters or the residential have you been in communication with them? Yes. We've had two neighborhood processes conducted by the City of Lawson, one in 2018 and one in 2021. We've had zero compliance from any of the of voters. This standard process with it, you know, whatever the number of feet is. And all people have been invited and Eagle Hill Civic Association has also been presented to twice with zero compliance. We've been a good neighbor. Hold on. Let me go and see if anybody's here to speak and support. I mean, I'm sure it can just make it quick. I mean, this seems like a these are existing containers and all the only changes the use. I would say the only question would be the issue of security. I don't think too many people are going to break into get lettuce. It's not as high value as cannabis. Well, it depends what kind of lettuce I suppose. Okay, let's go on and see if there's anybody here to speak and support our in opposition of this proposal. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. That's all I'm going to need to the mayor's office, neighborhood services, our office would like to defer to the board to judgment at this time. They have received support from the Eagle Hill Civic Association and voters and businesses in the area. Thank you. Madam Chair, I do have one raised hand. We'll hear. Lan, can you unmute? I'm sorry I forgot to lower my hand from the fire case. No worries. All right, Madam Chair, all set. Okay, may I have a motion, please? Madam Chair, I like to make a motion to approve with a proviso that delivery stock at 5 p.m. And I'd like to add another proviso. Okay, first for BPDA design review on screening and security. Screen and security and to this petition only. Yes. Okay, so I'm assuming you're backing each other up all those in favor. Any opposed? Motion carries. You're all set. Good luck. Thank you very much. Thank you, board. And call the 1030 cases. Call them the first two cases. Calling BOA 125, 692 922 Princeton Street. There's also a companion case BOA 127912722 Princeton Street. This is for directly four unit residential dwelling with roof deck. The violations are 53 section 8. MFR and forbidden use in the 3F 2000 sub district. Article 53 section 9, the fluently erasure was excessive. Article 53 section 9, the side juts and suspicion. Article 53 section 56, bar street back. Article 27, S, dash five. This is in the ice boss and iPod. Article 53 section 9, the additional audio areas of the patient. Article 53 section 9, the building has assessment stories. Article 53 section 9, the building has assessment feet. And out of 53 section 9, the usual open spaces and suspicion. This is building code for 222 Princeton Street. The violations 9th edition, terminate, CMR 1011, S, BOA. 1011.12.2 roof access. We're at Steele A's provided to a roof. Access to that roof. Shall be provided to a penthouse. I'm applying with this section 1510.2. Any more address for the record please? Members of the board, Richard Lins, 245 Sumner Street East Boston. I'll be half of the petitioner. Madam Chair, as Secretary indicated, there are actually two cases here. The building code relates to the proposed roof deck that we are incorporating into this project. And consistent with the board's past practice, we are eliminating the headhouse that would be proposed in connection with that. This is the demolition of all the demolition existing two families. Mr. Lins, can you hold on a minute? So you are going to be requesting the relief and access will be through a hack. Can you? Okay. Motion, please. On the bill. We'll go forward a motion for a building code relief on the penthouse and to use a hatch. Second, all those in favor? Any opposed? Motion carries. Thank you. Thank you. If we could just slide back perhaps one slide to show the context of the proposed elevation. So what we see here is the, what would essentially be the existing proposed conditions? The building immediately to our right is a newly constructed four unit dwelling located. These are both obviously located in the Ego Health section. We can also see the relative heights of the buildings, both left and right as you move up Princeton Street. We would be demolishing existing two family dwelling and replacing it with the four unit dwelling. Each of the units would be in excess of a thousand square feet. The lower level unit would be a two bedroom with the upper level units being three bedrooms. This is consistent with a lot of the comments that we do here in the community process about creating family sized units. The three bedroom units are about 1275 square feet, so generously sized for that size unit. Because this is located at 3F 2000 district madam chair, there are a number of items that we do require relief from. The first is the multi family use. What's square footage of this lot? 2500 square feet. So is there any parking being provided? There is no parking being provided and I can sort of enlighten the board of it on that conversation. On this side of Princeton Street, there are several properties that do have parking in the rear, which results in curb cuts obviously being added to Princeton Street. When we reviewed the project and immediately adjacent to this site, we did propose off street parking. We did hear concerns over eliminating on street parking as a result because we're going from a two to a four unit building. There's already a no parking condition that exists presently, so the impact would not be the same as if we were proposing to build from ground up on a vacant lot, for example. There is obviously mixed views and mixed thoughts on adding parking on site, however, consistent with what we've done in this particular neighborhood. Not adding a curb cut seems to be preferential choice for this location. This was within relatively shore walking distance to two MBTA stations. It's on the sort of lower side of the building closer to both airport and what I want to East Asian. Okay, so talk to us about a couple of additional things. What is the side yard that gives proposed? That's the first question. Second question is that roof deck who has access to that roof deck and I suppose a third question is there any occupancy in the basement? Sure. So the proposed project is built at grade of looking at it from Princeton Street. The slope of the property does handle up towards the Lexington, which is the street immediately behind it. We are not proposing a basement. This is actually going to be slab on grade. If we're looking at from the front of the building, the foundation wall does increase as we do move towards the rear, but we do have a walk out condition of the rear. With respect to the side yard, the existing conditions already are at point nine feet on the right, three point two, roughly about three feet on the left. We do maintain the side yard that presently exists for the building that's on the site now that will allow for openings on one side of the building as we show in the elevations. With respect to the roof deck, Madam Chair, that is exclusive to unit four, which is the upper level, which would be accessed from internal hatch. Okay. How are the plans, Miss Banner? Banner Chair, the plans are adequate. Any questions from the board? Yeah, how is the topography of the site slopes upwards? How is there a walk out in the rear? There must be steps up, right? Through the chair, Mr. Earl, I can probably jump to the elevation. I don't see Mr. Zaperson on the call you usually hear for these. Let me jump to the elevation and do my best to play architect. We can jump to the next slide, please. So I believe this illustrates the walk out condition. There isn't patio at that level, but we do see the foundation walls. And then I believe it's it's it's excavated to the rear for that patio, Mr. Earl. So the reason I'm stuck coming up. Sorry, this air exact some of the architect from context one on those street in Charlestown. Yeah, we tend to do the same thing that we were doing at two twenty four points, and which is create a patio space and then maintaining walls of the rear to walk out. Okay. May I ask are there other roof decks or decks in the budding properties or along the street? Yes, there are the chair of the immediate adjacent property to the right has a roof deck as well as several other properties in the immediate vicinity to have roof decks as well. Just one more question on that walk out that patio space has been created. How big is it and is that only available to the lower level unit? If we jump. Yes, it'll be about twenty one feet wide and about fourteen feet deep, and it is intended to be primarily for the base or the ground floor. Is that is that is that low of low unit handicapped accessible? Is there any accessibility in this building? Yeah, the ground floor, you know, we could buy an accessible. Okay. Any other questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition of this proposal? Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board and tell you any things with the mayor's office, neighborhood services or office, would like to defer to the voice judgment at this time. The about us meeting was held in July, 2021. They wish to match the character of the street and equal health, civic association of post, basic density and the fact that it will demolish a single house. Thank you. We also have Teresa from Councillor Lydia Edwards office. Lydia, you've, I've elevated you to a panelist. Are you? Yes, my name is Teresa Melionic, and I am representing Boston City Council, Lydia Edwards, and she wants to go on record as standing with the Eagle Hill Civic Association and being in opposition to this project. Okay. Any other raised hands, Mr. Ambassador? One raised hand. Chris, you've been unmuted. Go ahead. State your name and address for the record, please. Sorry. State your name and address for the record, please. My name is Chris Lehman. I live at 336 Saratoga Street, and he's Boston, which is right on the other side of the block from this. Are you in support or opposition? In support. Okay. Thank you. Madam Chair, Secretary, I'm sorry. We do have letters of support and opposition. The opposition is happy for you. Looks like it. Mr. Lens, I think are you, is audio working for you? I guess he's having issues with hearing and speaking also. Richard, you're unmuted. Can you try? If you want to write on the check. He's having difficulties because he's unmuted. You know, here. Mr. Lens in his comments says he believes there are a betters on call, and I think we've heard from one. I am uncomfortable getting to a motion if the attorney is not able to be to participate. We all have a Alexandra. Alexandra? Alexandra? You're unmuted. Okay. No, I just wanted to put on the record that I will support. You got to say your name and address for the record, please. Okay. My name is Alexandra, and my address is 32 reservoir. I work with Chris Proul, who lives directly across the street from 222 Princeton. Him and his wife, who own 215 Princeton, are also 34. Where is reservoir road? Is that an all-stone or is that an area? Where is it? Okay. I think we lost her. Missed the lens on. I'm sure I believe there were some comments by the BPD. Maybe we can hear from Jeff. Yes, that makes sense. Come on, Jeff. Do you want to go on the record on this? Sure. Thank you, Madam Chair. I'm going to go on the record. I'm going to go on the record. I'm going to go on the record. I'm going to go on the record. I'm going to go on the record. I'm going to go on the record. I'm going to go on the record. Thank you. We just cannot stand this. Thank you. Missed the lens on. I really was disconnected. I'm going to go on the record. I'm going to go on the record. I'm going to go on the record. I'm going to go on the record. I'm going to go on the record. I'm going to go on the record. This is the new private roof deck, which was approved by the Beacon Hill Civic Association for a top unit at 112 Pickney. The violation Article 13 Section 1, the bill on his excessive at feet. Article 13 Section 1, front yard, is insufficient. And Article 13 Section 1, the side yard, is insufficient. The bill is insufficient. The bill is insufficient. The bill is insufficient. The bill is insufficient. Is the representative for the applicant on? The applicant looks like he's on that affair. approving floor. Attack the straightaway Town Government. συng story, To your group, the petty net was listed, building on this narrow drive side to provide a view of the river. This is similar to many others along the river. Tell us exactly what the square footage is. And is this a one family or two family? This is a two level condominium unit that deck is accessible only through the unit by an existing stair and existing roof hatch. The area of the deck, the net area is approximately 700 square feet and also includes a green area of planting, which is part of that package. Okay. Miss, Miss better, how are, how are the plants? The plants are adequate. Any questions from the board? Let's see, access. The access is via an existing stair from the, from the unit to an existing glazed hatch that is already in place from a previous project several years ago. Okay. Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition to this proposal? Yes, good morning, Madam Chair. I'm members of the board. Malagreferent with the mayor's office and neighborhood services. Our office would like to defer to the board's judgment at this time. We held in a butters meeting on November 29th where the applicant addressed a butters questions. And any concerns that they raised and they have also received a letter of non opposition from the Beacon Health Civic Association. Thank you. Madam Chair, we have that letter as well. Okay. Madam Chair, I have one raised hand. Ramsey? Ramsey, state your name and address for the room. I'm told. Oh, could you hear me? Yes, we can. My name is Ramsey Fredsay, I live at 112 PICNAY Street. I am the trustee of 112 PICNAY. I'm in support of the project and they work with us the entire time to make sure our roof deck was in light time to theirs. Thank you. You may have a motion. Motion to approve. Is there a second? All those in favor? Aye. E-Post? Motion carries. Calling the next case. Calling VOA127. Very much. Two. Two hundred L Street. This is a change of October to family and store. The three family dwelling in the model of the first floor interior. The violations, Article 68, Section 33, Austria-Bach, Ease and Submission. Article 68, Section 8, useable open spaces and sufficient. Article 68, Section 8, the additional law of the area is insufficient. Avin Adder, full direct. Morning, Madam Chair, members of the Board. My name is George Morancy. I'm a Attorney for Business Adress at 350 West Broadway in Tel-Boston. My client is a Daytono Marisola, who is the owner of the building. He also resides at 200 L Street. He is the third floor apartment. This is Charlie Stray, four wood. My client owned and operated Marisolas on the first floor of this building, which was the store and restaurant in business for approximately 20 years. He closed during the pandemic and elected at this time in his life, not to reopen the store and restaurant business. He's proposing to convert the ground floor into a unit. Residential unit and apartment would be 1,600 square feet approximately, three bedroom units with no changes to the existing building on the low. Just simply a conversion of the first floor space from commercial into woodwall and unit. And there is no off-street parking provided? Not for the additional unit. There is a garage that is part of the building that has been there. My client initially wanted to enlarge the garage. There was opposition from the butter in the rear. So my client is proposing no changes to the building. But again, changing the restaurant, which had obviously delivery traffic and delivery vehicles to a residential unit, no parking can be provided. The site is located in corner and occupied the entire lot. Okay. How are the plans, Ms. Federer? Madam Chair, the plans are adequate. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak in support or in opposition if this proposal? I met him, Chair. I'm just on the board, Heli Delan-Meyer's office and the board services. I'd like to further vote to the board. I would like to recognize that the applicant has worked very closely with the neighbors. I'm engaged in their support. Thank you. Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board, I'm Akal DeRong from Council of Green's Office. The councilor would like to vote for it. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Paul Soler, just to the council lodge, Michael Flerty. Article 68 went through an extensive community process. And as you know, the council's approach is by consistent. Over their entire, for these variants, it's a sovereign, because there is a substantial hardship during the community process. This proponent made changes to address about his concerns. The coverage of back to residential will have less impact on the area than the existing west front use. And the reporter is well known, respect, or throughout the community. The track record being a good neighbor member in the community. Therefore, we defer the board's knowledge, understanding, and tripping zoning laws as it pertains to unnecessary and unintentional hardships. Thank you. Mr. Ambassador, any more raised hands? May I have a motion, please? Madam Chair, I'd like to put forward a motion of approval. Is that a design review? What is the BPDA? We can do, we can do, provide some of BPD design reviews just on the exterior. And they said no code relief? I don't think it really applies. Okay. Is there a second? There are two. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Madam Chair, Mr. Lynch is back on. Let's do River and then we'll come back on. Mr. Lynch, in the meantime, just make sure that you've been briefed by Mr. Zacherson on what happened in your absence. I have. Thank you. Okay. Let's finish with this and then we'll come back. Following the next case, calling VOA 1252941 1385 Rubistry. This is seeking to change the act or to family to a three family and renovate including dormers. The violation of the article 69, section 8, three family uses a bit. Article 69, section 23, this is in the neighborhood design. Article 69, section 29, are three parking and loading. Article 69, section 9, light areas and sufficient. Article 69, section 9, before the arrest, who is successful? Article 69, section 9, the Berlin hanged success stories. Article 69, section 9, usable open spaces and sufficient. Article 69, section 9, the Bill and the head's assessment fee. Article 69, section 9, the side yard isn't sufficient. And Article 69, section 9, the rear yard is insufficient. Name an address for the record please. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board, Attorney Maddacle, with Dregal in the Scana, with the business address of 11 Beacon Street in Boston. With me, I'm Frank Larkt, the property owner, as well as Adam Plassen in the project architect. As mentioned, we are seeking to change the occupancy from a two-family dwelling to a three-family dwelling, and to renovate the structure, including adding a sprinkler system and dormers. There is no proposed change to the building footprint or reduction in the open space. What we're seeking to do is essentially turn an unoccupied into that third unit. Currently, it is built out as a two and a half to three-story building, and we'd be seeking to add some dormers just to raise ceiling height as the roof catches. We do have a ceiling height of 14 feet currently up there, but because the roof is sloped in pitch, we'd have to add dormers, which you can see on the right side, there we're proposing four dormers to in the front, and two in the rear, pull back from the front and back of the property. So, can you give us a sense of revis street, because this is a two-of-five thousand district, so can you give us a sense of what revis street is, and really why this should go to a three-family? Sure, Madam Chair. In terms of the current surrounding buildings, we're right across the street from a mixed-use building. I believe it's a Knights of Columbus, as well as some residential, and then there's a mixture of two and three-family condominium buildings and two and three-family rental buildings around us. So it is a mixture, but there are some commercial uses, as well as some other three-family dwellings. We thought this was an appropriate location for our three-family, because as you can see, it is not seeking to increase living space into the basement. We're not building on the footprint. We're really using existing space on that third floor with the assistance of the dormers proposed to make a fully livable unit. We are seeking to create that. Right, right. Yeah, what's that proposed unit space square footage? Sure, so we're proposing a two-bedroom, two-bathroom unit, just over 1,100 square feet. And as mentioned, the ceiling height would be 14 feet. We also have two means of egress that currently exist in both in the side. There you can kind of see it's highlighted in the blue on the right. The two stairwells will go up to the third floor. Okay, hold on. They already do for acts. Hold on, Mr. Echo. Miss Better, how are the plans? Med chair, the plans are accurate. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition of this proposal? Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. This is Danielle Fonseca with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. At this time, we would like to defer judgment to the board. But we would like to highlight that the applicants completed the community process. They notified a butters and a community meeting was hosted by our office on October 14th, where no butters were in attendance. The applicants also notified the appropriate, excuse me, the appropriate civic association and they met with the High Park Neighborhood Association on December 2nd. We haven't received any letters of opposition and we've received eight letters of support for this proposal, which have been submitted to the board for review as well. Thank you. Madam Chair, Secretary, we have letters of support. We have one letter of opposition just to pose to the project, General. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. Jordan Freers here from Councilor Royals office. We just want to go on record and support of this. Thank you. Madam Chair, I have no raised hands. May I have a motion, please? Make a motion approval of EPA design or gift. Jordan. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. So let's go back. Thank you, Madam Chair. I'm going to the board. You're welcome. Do I take it from him, Mr. Madam Chair? Yes, Mr. Princeton and close Princeton Street off, please. Going back to two cases, we heard previously BOA 125, 699, 222 Princeton Street. Then the companion case, BOA 129, 1279, 127, 222 Princeton. May we add just to the right, please? Thank you. Again, Madam Chair, members of the board, Richard Lins, 245 Sumner Street East Boston and we have a petitioner. I apologize. I got picked off and I could not walk back in. I had a good new computer. I apologize, Madam Chair. So, Mr. Lins, I think you've been briefed that in your absence, there was voices and opposition, including the BPDA. So can you please give us any note to inverse the answer? Sure. On the density and parking issue, I believe those are the two issues that were cited. We looked at and examined the relative size of buildings along that side of Princeton Street try to remain consistent. Our height of our building, as you can see, from the existing buildings on that side of the street, we do have a lot of raised foundations for existing three family structures. So the height is generally consistent of what you see on that side of Princeton Street. Same thing with the depth. Our depth is about 30 feet from the rear property line, which is consistent with Article 53. We do have some decks and stairwells in the back, but for the most part, we preserve a pretty good setback for the back of the building. You can see most of the buildings along that side of Princeton do go back, probably a consistent depth as well. Mr. Lins, my sense is that people have the conversation that we had in your absence is that voices were raised that perhaps the street has reached its caring capacity as far as density and lack of parking. So I just put that on the record for your information. I can respond briefly on that. So in order to, I mean, we certainly examine the option of parking at the lower level, which would be a condition that doesn't exist really anywhere on that side of Princeton Street. So if we were to part of our parking space at the lower level, which is done on the projects of the other area, it would sort of be an unusual design, I would think, for this neighborhood. Moreover, we would be adding additional curb cut to the street, which we did hear through community process that removing one and a half parking spaces essentially from the street to benefit what would otherwise be to require parking spaces on site didn't make a lot of sense. And that's the reason why we approached this, similar to the way we've approached the building immediately next door. Okay, thank you. So the board, you've heard the testimony, you've heard the BPD's opinion may have a motion, please. I'll make a motion for the aisle. Is there a second? Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Aye, opposed. Aye, opposed. Who's opposed, Ms. Miss? There are no. Secretary. Secretary. Okay, so motion does not carry, may I have another motion? I'd like to put forward a motion of Denon without prejudice. Okay. Is there a second? I'll second that motion. All those in favor? Aye. Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. So good luck, Ms. Lenz. Thank you, thank you. Calling the next case. Calling BOA, 116, 06, 5,944, 454, Abanyu. This is a change of art from cannabis established medical to cannabis establishment medical and recreational. Violations out of 55, section 16. Cannabis establishment, recreational use is conditional. Name and address for the record. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board, Lessa Delaney Hopkins, attorney with Prince Lowe Bell with an address of one international place in Boston, on behalf of the applicant, Bapakak Gang. And with me is Joseph LeCash, the president and CEO of the applicant. If it pleases the board, I'll give a brief overview of what we're proposing, and then we'll of course give ready questions. So Ms. Hawkins, I think what we need to understand is, was this, who is the applicant on this? And we've seen this project before. You have seen this project and approved it for medical only back in, I believe December of 2018. This is an application to co-locate both medical and recreational at the site, with no changes to the actual building plan that was proposed or the operations. The applicant has not yet opened for medical, but it has now been approved by the CCC and completed its build out. So it will be opening with the cannabis board's approval, and issuance of the license in the coming week. So what we're about before you force to actually add recreational to have both of those uses at the site. Okay, so I think medical, to tell us about the recreational component. As you know, we are interested in security. We are interested in how the system works and the hours of operation. Absolutely. So the proposed hours of operation are Sunday and Monday, 11 a.m. to 7 p.m., and Tuesday through Saturday, 10 a.m. to 8 p.m. As you can see on the plan, this is actually not a sizable establishment. It's fairly small in square footage with a total capacity of 22. So the patrons will enter on the left side where they will be ID. They will be ID at 2 checks, one upon entry, and the second will be upon the purchase of any product. The exit is actually on the far right to the rear, and there is a handicapped entrance as well. There is a dedicated at the rear, a dedicated entrance for deliveries. We've actually been able to secure parking space in the rear of the building that will be utilized solely for secure deliveries of product as well as the transportation of monies. Okay. Go ahead. Go ahead. We do not anticipate significant queuing, but should there be any over, over a gift capacity, those patrons will be monitored by staff, and will actually be queued on the far right away from the sidewalks. We will not be taking up sidewalk space. Should we have any queuing? The establishment will have one dedicated at least security guard on staff at all time monitoring this space. We will also have a staff outside in addition to monitoring any patrons to ensure that there is no double parking. The establishment will be monitored by 18 security cameras, which will be operational at all times. And of course, any footage will be available to both the Boston Police Department, the Cannabis Control Commission, and any other agency. Please tell us how a medical patient would be processed differently than a recreational patient. Absolutely. There will be two dedicated lines for queuing. One for points of sale, one for recreational, and one for medical. What we have seen is that we're seeing a significant amount of online ordering, and we actually provide a system through which patrons can order online, and then they actually receive an automated text when their order is prepared. So as you can see, we can, there will be two, as I explained, separate points of sale, and the staff will work with the patrons to ensure whether they are recreational or medical, obviously, with the emphasis being on ensuring that our clients are served in a timely manner. And was there any providers put on the approval and December 18th and December 2018? To this petitioner only in that it was limited to medical at that time. Okay, and this petitioner is exactly the same petitioner. Yes, it is. Is it an equity petitioner? This is non-equity, however, Joseph LeCache is of Hispanic descent, and is putting an emphasis on ensuring that not just the staff that we're hiring in our management, are diverse, but also that we're contracting with third-party vendors that are owned by minorities and women as well. Okay, how are the plans, Ms. Better? Madam Chair, the plan, the plans are adequate. Is this the location where the fireside tabern currently is? No, nobody's not. This has been built out. Okay. This is by the Air Force, though, station, right? Correct. Yeah. Is anybody here to speak, either, and support our in opposition of this proposal? Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is Mary Ticney-Poieto here from the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. At this time, the Mayor's Office would like to be further the board's judgment. The green process for this proposal was largely facilitated by my predecessor, Lindsay Santano. However, I sat in on the Civic Association with the Jamaica Play Neighborhood Council last week, which was on the 19th, when they voted to approve. Also, I would like to just put on the record that at this time, I do not have any letters of opposition. Thank you. I'm sure I have no raised hands. May I have a motion, please? I'll leave. I'll leave. Too approved. Let's. And it's to this petition, only. Yep. Okay. Is there a second? There you go. All those in favor? Aye. Any closed motion carries. Thank you very much. I'll allow the case for 1030, calling B.O.A. 1, 2, 8, 0, 3, 0, 3, 15 to 17, Abo Road. This is an extension of living space into the basement, finishing existing basement by adding to unit 1 to create a 2-level unit. Configuration includes two bedrooms, one baths, a family room. And the related work to exterior egressed, the violation of Article 67, Section 9, lawyer H.O. was excessive. Name and address for the record, please. Is there a Mr. Patch? Come on. No, I don't not see a Mr. Patch on the attend. Oh, he's just logged on. Hold on. He's on. Mr. Patch. Here you go. State your name and address for the record, please. Done, isn't it? Yes, I can hear you. Can you hear me? Yes, we can. Yes, I've been here for the entire time. Good morning. State your name and address for the record, please. Thank you. My name is Dennis Patch. I live at 15-17 Arbor Road in Rosendale. I live in unit 1. And tell us how many units in this building? There's two units in the building. Okay. And tell us what's being proposed. We're proposing to finish the basement, which probably last was worked on back in the 50s. So we're finishing the walls. Adding two bedrooms and. You know, heating it. Okay. Tell us about the, tell us about the floor to ceiling height. Tell us about the utilities. If there are utility room that you've described is just for this unit of, if it includes the utility for the other units. And tell us about the floor to still heights in bedrooms. Okay. My, my general contractor, Paul, if you can unmute him, I'll have him talk about the ceiling heights. But the utilities, we actually, excuse me. Excuse me. Is there some work going on in the background? Can you have them stop while they are presenting? Certainly. The meantime is the architect or the jet contractor on. He's on. Please put your name and address on the record and tell us what's being proposed. All right. Can you hear me? Okay. Yes. Float ceiling height, floor to cell height in the bedrooms. Madam Chairman, can I address this please? Yeah, go ahead. All right. It's Paul. You remember with structures, the contractor posing on the project. Okay. The floor is ceiling height is approximately seven foot two inches to seven foot three inches. As a finished height. Proposing adding two bedrooms and actually reestablishing a bathroom down there. The utility room in the center is exclusive to unit one. And the heating system in there is exclusive to unit one. You're seeing an older plan. But it's been modified. And can you confirm that this is a two family? Yes, it is a two family. Yep. Okay. And let me see. Okay. How are the plans, Ms. Bedroom? Bedroom chair, the plans are adequate. It will be good for the contractor to also just verify the cell height on the basement to the window. Is that for all units or just- No, just the basement. I'd love for the basement bedrooms. Correct. I know that we have egress windows in the bedrooms there. So we find out the floor to a gray height. How far is this unit below gray? It's a sloping lock from front to back at the back. It's a walk out. It goes from being approximately five feet below gray at the front of building to below. It's below gray at the back of building. And are the bedrooms in the rear of the front? One is on the side, mid-length on the side, and the other is on the rear. This has become now a by-level, the proposals for a by-level unit. Is there a way of reconfiguring the rooms so the bedrooms would be on the first floor? No, it's not quite space. It's already a finished space in the first floor. So if you have two doors, is it- am I seeing that correctly? There's two doors on the basement level. Correct. Then what- that you can walk out. That you can walk out, right? Right, so you can have- with two egress, you can have windows that are not necessarily 44-inch from the ground. I did look at your Google image. It would have been helpful to have an elevation. Your windows are pretty close to that grade, so I don't really see an issue of egress. Or natural light? Or natural light, correct. Okay. So how many bedrooms total in this proposed unit? You didn't have a total four bedrooms total. Okay. And there is- we want to make sure that this does not inadvertently change into a separate unit. So we want to- just confirm that with you that this is an extension of a one family into the basement. Correct. Okay. Any other questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition of this proposal? I have no raised hands, but I'm chair. Mr.- Mr. Fortune, any letters? No, Madam Chair, we have nothing. Okay. May I have a motion, please? Madam Chair, I'd like to put forward a motion of approval. May we have designed reviews, so we just sort out all this bedroom stuff so that in fact we are getting- Are comfortable with how this looks? There's no exterior work done as all interior, so I don't really see any need for BPDA design review. If you would like to put a proposal that does not be converted into an additional 12 unit deadline, I think. Yeah. Well with that and no building code really. Okay. I'm fine with that. Okay. Okay. No further record. Confirming that this will not be converted into another dwelling unit. There's no building code relief. Anything else? Okay. With that, may I have a second and all those in favor? Any opposed? Motion carries. I know you're going to end up being out of breath, but maybe go through the recommendations next. We can do that, Madam Chair. Would there be a way to do it? Yeah, it's 1130. Let's go for it. Okay. So this was the hearings that we heard Thursday at 1010 MSF. Case B-O-A, 1, 2, 3, 55717, Code of Street. With the compare market as a single family, got renovation, it was approved. Case B-O-A, 1, 2, 4, 3, 2, 9, 2, 4 mile furnace street. This was an addition of 168th-way, foot, third floor addition. It was approved. Case B-O-A, 1, 2, 6, 4, 7, 2, 8, 86 Washington Street was a change of arc from a single family to a two family. Constructed a rear dome art. It was approved with BPDA for basement unit design. And no building code relief. Case B-O-A, 1, 2, 6, 3, 1, 1, 4, 34th Sullivan Street. It was the modified plans include roof deck. It was approved. Case B-O-A, 1, 2, 4, 0, 7, 4, 2, 60 temple street. It was to add a roof deck. It was approved. Out of case B-O-A, 1, 2, 5, 9, 8, 4, 9, 6, 1, 2, 63 Berkeley Street was a change of arc to include microglating body art. It was approved. Case B-O-A, 1, 2, 4, 4, 2, 3, 7, 56 Linwood Street. It was a proposed paraphrase for one vehicle. It was denied. Case B-O-A, 1, 2, 5, 9, 6, 8, 5, 4, 1, back street. It was a confirmed market at one family extend living space to the basement and reconfigured the roof line. It was approved with B-P-D-A and attention to the dormant, the size of the basement window, and no building trope relief. It was a TNM style driveway installed inside the house. It was approved with B-P-D-A to extend the driveway and install permeal papers. Case B-O-A, 1, 2, 2, 4, 5, 5, 6, 2, 19, 2, 21, We have been on average with replacing rotting fence with wood fence that was approved. Case B-O-A, 1, 2, 4, 0, 5, 0, 3, 27 fonts road. It was adding donors to an existing second floor and full bathroom that was approved. Case B-O-A, 1, 2, 5, 8, 1, 8, 9, 30 press cost street. It was interior renovation, doors, windows, it was approved with B-P-D-A and a new deck. Case B-O-A, 1, 2, 3, 8, 3, 9, 1, 83, Chittic Road. It was constructed 13 by 16 ground level deck. In the rave of the existing two family, it was approved. Case B-O-A, 1, 2, 6, 1, 9, 7, 2, 88, Lealand Road. It was an accessible vertical lift with roof, side of the attach to the house, it was approved. Case B-O-A, 1, 2, 2, 4, 8, 0, 6, 73, Newberg Street. It was a contracted single story edition and renovated it was approved. Case B-O-A, 1, 2, 5, 3, 0, 8, 2, 21 wall road street. It was an extension of living space in the rave of a single family and in front porch. It was approved with B-P-D-A, intention to the dormers. Case B-O-A, 1, 2, 6, 4, 3, 1, 1, 6, to 6, 8, mendom street. It was constructed through a floor vertical edition and this two family drawing it was approved with B-P-D-A. In case B-O-A, 1, 2, 6, 4, 4, 2, 1, 6 Belier Road. It was finished off the attic, included bathroom, bathroom, and family room, three storage closets. It was approved. Madam Chair, that concludes the subcommittee. It's met on January 20th, Thursday, 2022 in the motion. Motion to give the car to the recommendation of the subcommittee. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. I'm going to call the 11 o'clock hearings. I'm calling the first case. Call the B-O-A, 1, 2, 6, 1, 9, 2, 5, 1, 15, Neal and Street. This is directed. 22 story mixed use building on ground level will be a building lobby space, retail, bar, and restaurant space. There will be 115 dwelling units on the upper floors. There will be amenity spaces on the second and third floors and a building amenity roof deck. The violation of the attic of 32, section 6, this is an agicard, Article 44, section 10. Takeout, restaurant, use this conditional, Article 44, section 11, Austrian Pachy is insufficient. Article 44, section 5, the floor day ratio is excessive. Article 44, section 5, the building height is excessive. Article 44, section 7, the sky plane, setback regulations. Name an address for the record please. Good morning Madam Chair, members of the board. Don Wies with the Dane Torpe firm at 745 Land Cabinet here for the proponent. I have a question for you. I have a question for you. I have a question for you. I have a question for you. I have a question for you. I have a question for you. I have a question for you. I have a question for you. I have a question for you. I have a question for you. I have a question for you. I have a question for you. I have a question for you. I have a question for you. I have a question for you. I have a question for you. I have a question for you. I have a question for you. I have a question for you. I have a question for you. I have a question for you. I have a question for you. I have a question for you. I have a question for you. This reply has been concerned about the manufacturing process Bur own. This reply has been negative explanation and because the Mr. Weist from Toronto, the the record. Yes, Madam Chair, we do. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Weiss, please go ahead and just before we go into any detail, I'd like to make sure that when we get a motion, should this be approved that we do not prove takeout because we do not approve takeout until we know who the occupant is proposed. So please, Mr. Weiss, go ahead with your presentation. Very well, thank you, Madam Chair. Mr. Simonelli gave you a little bit of a procedural backdrop here. This project has been before the board. As you can see in the central rendering here, it is a very handsome proposal, very contextual design, original concept and was very hotel. It was approved by the BTA and by this board in late 2018 that ended up being a very difficult time to get hotel financing and the proponent worked very hard to try to put the hotel project together but just approved and possible. Hotel market is as we see today stirring a little bit but still very challenged that making it for a while. So the proponent decided to change the project to a residential use, the BPDA in 2021 in May approved and knows the project change after finding that the increases, that the impacts of the increase in the use, did not increase with the change in use and in fact all the indications were that the impacts decreased. So that is the procedural background. The project is seeking the same relief as before because the dimensional envelope is the same. The only thing that has changed is the primary use from a hotel to residential. The applicable height here is 100 feet. The project is seeking against the apartment for it had 220 feet F.R. 17 versus 8 with kindergarten zoning. There is no parking on site. There is a small site. This is also one of the most walkable locations in the entire city. Jason South Station walkable to the financial district in Back Bay. The zoning we call for 115 parking spaces but there is no parking on site in the typical of May the buildings in this area. And finally there is a sky plain setback requirement that the project does not have. So that and G. Cod which Mr. Simon and Ellie refer to, that is the zoning relief we are looking for and that is the backdrop. Why do I let my co-pant was the proponent know Ron tell you about the process. Thank you. We can hear from about the community process from the mayor's office and the elected officials. What I would like to hear are there any ducks being proposed, any roof ducks, the breakdown on the one, two, and three bedrooms and how many affordable units are being proposed. Thank you Madam Chair. I am happy to address that. No one Ron, one of seven South Street and other districts. I do want to go ahead and thank you and the board, BPD staff, elected officials, numerous probably hundreds of neighbors that came out through a very heavily vetted process the last three years. I am sure you will hear from the mayor's office and I do want to highlight that we. Please wait. We will make support for the project. I just want to remind you, I will move on. I just want to remind you that this project was fully approved. The only change is resident use. I am sorry. I am going to lose my temper fairly soon because we have been sitting since 9.30. Mr. Councillor has already gone through this. Please answer our questions on the units, the unit size, any decks and affordability. Let's just get to the meat of the matter. Okay. We are proposing a roof deck for the use of residents. This is in line with BPD guidance to provide outdoor public space for wellness, especially during COVID-19, post pandemic design for fresh air and recreation. 115 dwelling units. We are looking at a mix of roughly 80% one bedrooms, roughly 95 units and roughly 22 bedroom units for this project. The affordable housing you asked about, we in partnership with the Chinese Economic Development Council are looking to provide approximately 20 units of deeply affordable, roughly 30 to 50% AMI. The most deeply affordable units available will be provided approximately two blocks away right in the heart of Chinatown on Oxford TV. It is going to be our site then. Correct, yeah, that is based on our discussions with the community with various Chinatown groups and the city as well. And then talk to us then about the sizes of these one and two bedrooms. Sure, yeah, there is a range of 550 square feet up to 950 square foot units with the emphasis on close to transit, relatively efficiently designed, trying to maximize the unit count and usability of a very small footprint building. Tell us about the one bedrooms of 550 to 950 and the two bedrooms. The overall unit size is 550 to 950. One bedrooms range from roughly 550 to 700. We have two bedrooms ranging from 750 to roughly the approximately 950. Just in line with the city's compact living guidelines. Well, that is where I feel that there is an internal conflict because you know you just talked about compact living and then you talk about the roof giving people health and well-being and mental health space. But then these units on the other hand are awful tiny. So I will leave it at that. How are the plans miss better? Yes. Madam Chair, the plans are adequate. Any questions from the board? Yeah, I apologize. I cut out for a second. Could you go over the compact living units once more of the number and the unit sizes? Sorry. Happy to. No problem at all. There is a total of 115 units on site that we are delivering. Approximately 95 one bedrooms and approximately 22 bedrooms. Overall ranges from 550 to 950 square feet. So one bedrooms average size, probably 650. The range is 550 to 750. Two bedrooms range from approximately 750 to 950 square feet. So under the city's compact guidelines some of those units are below the conventional standards of the compact unit. So I know. Yes, they do fall in what sort of the city determines its compact. And then when there is a compact living unit, the city also has guidelines for common spaces including what we are providing on the second and third levels including fitness, sort of meeting spaces as I mentioned the top floor roof amenity space. So despite the small unit size, we are going to guide them. Exploding the roof deck which in the way like today I don't know how many people can really want to be spending a lot of time up there. How many square feet are common space inside the building? I have to check my notes. I think it is approximately 2500 square feet and that does not include another approximately 1500 square feet of retail that will be accessible to residents and the public. Okay, I don't have the formula in front of me but I think there is a ratio of the compact living guidelines of the number of sub standard units in common space. So I am counting on you to have met them because I don't have like I said the numbers in front of me. We have and as I mentioned this was heavily divided by the BPDA and various city departments and the community as well. Any other questions from the board? Just for clarity your own you proposing retail not a restaurant. Sorry, I speak about it from an industry perspective we call it retail. The emphasis will be on a food and beverage use so a restaurant downstairs. I believe we are previously approved for takeout but I understand if you need us to come back with an actually user to determine that. Can you just then describe kind of the loading for the retail and trash management system for the restaurant? How do you see it? Play out. Yeah, happy to. You can pull up a ground floor if you like but the all loading will actually occur off of Neelan street so excuse me not on Neelan street so on Utica street which is a side service street so really all loading and access sort of page top left if you will and the view you are seeing here. Those will be able to pull off the main street avoid the heavily trafficked Neelan street corridor and there is a side there is an area that is labeled receiving today is where we will be sharing both by the residential and the restaurant use. There is also a passageway between our building and our butter. Our butter is supportive of this client as well so there is sort of an extra ways to get in and out of just the retail specific use as well. So the other trash would be indoors and then take an out specific time? Correct. Correct. Correct. Correct. We will be completely indoors inside closed loading. I can trash room. Again, this may you may have covered this one my son would have but rental ownership combination. We are focused today on condo for sale ownership product. I will say very challenging market throughout housing so we are looking at our options but our goal is for ownership condo. And you have any deep restrictions about speculators coming in and then flipping or buying it but then using it for rental? Yeah, I am happy to work with the city on those specific requirements. If that makes it to a deed or to other guidelines I am not sure what sort of standard practice is but we are happy to do that from a neighborhood perspective. We are heavily invested in the neighborhood and other properties that we would like to see the most owner of the unit and not secondary rental units. I mean you are obviously very close to downtown and there has been an awful lot of non-owner occupied ownership situations that have characterized a lot of the high rises. So it is a problem in the city. Agreed. Any other questions? Go ahead. Can you please describe your sustainability measures for the project? Sure, I will say we are aiming for a lead gold certifiable design and I will say also from a resiliency perspective we are not building a basement. So the lowest level we get to is just an elevator pit below the lobby. All of our mechanicals are occurring upstairs. So as far as sea level change, climate change, sea level rise, we are above that threshold and we are looking at the most efficient way to utilize a facade combination glazing and masonry to ensure meeting the energy code. Also I should also say this was a change from the previous proposal. There will be no more gas in the building so it is fully electric, no fossil fuel burning and just better overall for a care quality. Okay, any other questions? Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition to this proposal? Hi. Good morning. Is this still morning? Yep, it is still morning. Good morning Madam Chair and members of the board. I am Chewamp Wong from the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. We would like to defer to the judgment of the board on this matter. So my knowledge there are no concerns raised by the butter's board, low-priced associations for this proposal. However, I would like to note that there are multiple letters to support. Thank you. Madam Chair, Secretary here we do have letters to support. We do have letters of opposition. The opposition seems to be pocketing. Thank you. Good morning Madam Chair and members of the board. I am Calonan from Calcular Flings office. Please know the Confolors Center's support letter for this proposal to support from the residents in the area and the Chinatown Land Trust. The change of views to homeownership owners will add to the city's housing stock as well as a photo house installed through IDP. It will have less impact on traffic and activation of the site. We will also bring more attention to the regular park. Thank you. Madam Chair, I have a few raised hands. Roger, you've been unmuted. If you can state your name and address for the record, please. I am sorry. I cannot mute myself. Roger? Yes. Yes. State your name and address for the record, please. I am sorry. I cannot mute myself. Roger Burman, 186 South Street, Boston, around the corner from the site. A couple of comments. I have no problem with the structure, the elevations you are seeing. They have been approved before. I am pleased with the change of views. I think they have done well. Mr. Burman. Please get to the point to tell us what you are if you are in support or in opposition. If there are elements that you are in opposition, please hustle and put that on the record. Any future speakers, please make sure you are adding more information rather than repeating what they have already heard. I will give us new information and if you just want to be recorded speaking on this project, put your name and address on the record. With those instructions, Mr. Burman, can you tell us directly what you are in opposition? Thank you, Madam Chairman. I am in support of the project. I am in support of the proponent. It has been an active member of the community. I am in support of the changes they are requesting. Thank you. Thank you. All right. We have fill up. Fill up, you have been unmuted. Can you say your name and address on the record? Yes, Philips Diner. 121 Beach, straight unit 7 of 3. In opposition to the project. Additional comments. The building is way too high. The building is lower than 12 stories in the ledity district. Another comment is Utica Street which is planned for loading unloading and garbage. It is fairly narrow. It has currently no sidewalks. We would expect sidewalks to be installed. I am not sure there is enough space left for the trash removal as was previously indicated. Another concern is noise from the roof deck for surrounding. I would like to know whether the roof deck outdoor space is north or south facing. Thank you. All right. Danielle, you have been unmuted. If you can say your name and address for the record, please. Danielle? Yes. I am seeing. Sorry. Thank you Madam Chairman. 121 Beach, straight unit. I own two units in this building which is just north of the proposed project. I am in opposition because of the height and the scale of the project and the lack of parking. The height will cast a shadow over all our units. It will loom over our buildings. They are adding 115 new residences to give you a size of a sense of scale. Our current building is 26 residents. Thank you so much. We understand the concerns of density of Utica Street. And the concerns about noise off of the roof deck. Please, whoever speaks next, give us new information. Karen, sorry, Catherine. You have been unmuted. If you can state your name and address for the record, please. Catherine? Okay. Karen Bunch? Hi, Karen. Yes. I'm answering. Hi, Karen. Stay your name and address for the record, please. Karen Bunch, 45 Quincy Street, Roxbury, Mass. I'm here for Pazers Street. You and you. Can you put your hand down for now? It's not on yet. Okay. I'm going to put your hand down for now. Catherine? Catherine, you are muted. If you can state your name and address for the record, please. I don't know what's going on. Catherine? Can we? Yes. Ben, you've been unmuted. If you can state your name and address for the record, please. I think we have a couple of comments. I think we have a couple of comments. Yes. Hi, Ben Rosenberg, 144 Lincoln Street. My family's owned the building for 40 years. I grew up in the building. I'd like to speak in favor of the project. I think it's a good project. I disagree with the previous couple of commenters. Hold on. Hold on. That's good. Thank you. Alan, you've been unmuted. If you can state your name and address for the record, please. Alan? Okay. Christopher? You've been unmuted. If you can state your name and address for the record, please. Christopher? It's Christopher Ingebrezson, 107 South Street. I have been a resident of the Leatherto District for 22 years. I strongly support this project. I am concerned about the vagrancy activity that has been in the neighborhood with the prior use of that parcel. I see this as a huge improvement, both to the as a facelift for the neighborhood, and for our quality of life for me and my two kids. Thank you. Everybody who's already spoken, please lower your hand. Alan, you've been unmuted. If you can state your name and address for the record, please. Alan? Alan Chin, 65-Harris Navinieu, CEDC. And I am representing the developer of the public side. We're very much in support of this project. Thank you. We move on to the call and user. I can't see who that was. Councillor TFA. You've been unmuted. If you can state your name and address, please. Councillor Tanya and Fernandez Anderson is in mouthful. I hope to brand this TFA thing. Councillor, are you here for Neelan Street? I'm here for Taber. Taber's not on yet, so hold on. Hold on a minute. Can we call in number 16. You've been unmuted. If you can state your name and address for the record, please. Caller 16? Hello. Yes. My number is Christopher Campbell, trophy restaurant in the leather district. I'm in strong support of this project. And I think it will greatly benefit the neighborhood. Okay. So the board, board you've heard people in support in opposition. And you've heard my introductory statement about that we did not give pocket approval for takeout restaurant. So may I have a motion, please? I have two approved BPD design review with the proviso that we'll have to come back for it. Any takeout by motion? Seconded motion. Seconded. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. You're all set, but those provisos. Thank you very much. Thank you so much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks. Thank you. Thank you. It is also a twelve Knee. It is Tian早. Now I go to your board. I comment as well and tell you the results. Okay, thank you. So the basement is office. And then tell us about the first floor. First floor is also office. Tom. It's all concept Taiwanese. Then up above is the floor residential units. Okay. Now, let's go back to the roof deck. You said the penthouse proposed or is it existing? are on such but through the community process that was removed the existing headhouse will remain and create access to the proposed exclusive use roof deck. And tell us about that headhouse what is the dimension? It's approximately 10.9 by 10.9 manager. Okay. And the deck is accessible to all the units or just the top unit. The roof deck will be exclusive use manager. Okay, sorry. Roof deck equals exclusives. Okay. How are the plans miss better? How are the plans miss better? My apologies. Madam Chair, plans are adequate. Okay. Any questions from the board? Madam Chair, do you want to get Mr. Simmon all the way? This is G-Cott. Oh, this is a G-Cott? I didn't even notice that. Yes, go ahead, please Mr. Seminole. Madam Chairman, Mr. Boyd, Christian Seminole, Buss of Groundwater Trust, then we have both the Fust of Water and Sour approval and no harm large. And we have them as well, Madam Chair. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, I have a question. The headhouse, you said it's 10 foot by 10 foot 9. So you said approximately, Mr. Relic? Yeah, that's, okay, so the wet bar is gone, but that's a larger than necessary to just access the roof. What's the space used for? If you go to the roof plan, you can see it. It's really the double load and see it comes up and that's it. It's not overly large, Mr. Relic. Oh, because the stairs right in the middle. Right. Okay. All right. Any other questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition of this proposal? Hi, yes. I'm good afternoon, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Tim Kusuele from the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. At this time, our office differs to the board on this matter. Our office is hosted in a number of a butters meetings on this proposal. The main concerns are regarding privacy and security, light and the overall size of the proposal. The butters have also met multiple times with the applicant and current signatures of these issues. We've received numerous others of opposition for this proposal from the butters as well as opposition from the Pell Park Neighborhood Association. Again, our office would like to defer to the judgment of the board on this matter. Thank you. Good afternoon, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Anakal Leidon from Councilor Flings Office. Please note that Councilor Hacent and other lettering opposition to the board today regarding this project. The project proposes to be a penthouse with a web-turned-as-roof deck and has other significant opposition from a butters neighbors and the Pell Park Neighborhood Association. Neighbors are especially concerned about the proposed tarry tower that is currently about 663 tremor and extends more than 13C beyond the abodding property. The tarry tower will block light in near flow and create privacy concerns for the abodders as anyone with the access with the stairs will be able to look into the abodders windows more or ever. This project's proposed expansion will really reduce rear-yard space and exacerbate the difficult parking situation at the back. Thank you. Some Anna. The applicant has the representative of the applicant has presented that the wet bar has been taken out and they will be using the current headhouse. Does that change your opinion about that roof addition? Because I understand on the other hand, you are opposed to the addition at the first floor and basement. Thank you, Madam Chair. I did hear that but I'm not sure if our waters are aware of the wet bar changes because the last time we heard from the neighborhood association they mentioned that no change were made at the last meeting but there is still concerns coming from other areas of the proposal so the councilor units oppose. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, we do have letters of support. A couple of letters of support, mostly opposition but I think you're correct. I think a lot of these letters of opposition were presented to us previous. Madam Chair, members of the board, echoing the sentence of council, Queensland's office, council flurry, elected on record and opposition, also on council flurry. Madam Chair, I have three raised hands. So, Quarry, you've been unmuted if you can state your name and address for the record, please. I'm Quarry. My address is 663 Traymon Street. And I am in opposition to this project mainly for the space that extends and the stairwell as that will definitely exacerbate the parking situation that my car is the one that's immediately next to the cars picture in the plans and I've already had to file an insurance claim being hit by this urge to one of the departments already. So, it is already a problem. Thank you. Matt, you've been unmuted if you can state your name and address for the record, please. Matt? With the business address of 661 Traymon Street, I'm the owner of concept properties. I'm in support of the proposal. Thank you. Because it would be... Matt, we would expect you being in support of the proposal, but thank you. Can we hear from anybody else? Sure. No, well, you've been unmuted if you can state your name and address for the record, please. No, well. No, well. No, well. Can you hear me? Yes, we can hear you. Okay. Can you name and address please for the record? No, well, Blair 175 West Procline Street. I'm here representing the Pile Block Neighborhood Association. We're in opposition to this proposal which disregards both zoning requirements and a butter concerns. I just want to make it clear what the main butter concerns had been given the commentary so far. This is not about the deck on the roof. This is about the decks and the stair tower that are going to be constructed on the rear of the building. So, right now, there exists an existing set of stairs that that goes up along the back of the building, extending seven feet from the rear. That is being changed into a set of decks that come seven feet out supported by posts all the way up to the top of the building. And then another stairway that comes out to the rear from there creating an addition to the rear of the building that extends 20 feet from the rear wall of the building. And that's where all the concerns that you're seeing in the letters and throughout the the whole community process has been our, our typical decks that are approved here in the south end complied to six foot distance from the back building with cantilevered support to minimize the presence of the decks. This, this is creating a 20 foot extension, inclusive of both the new decks in the stair tower. That is going to intrude on the the privacy of neighbors, the olden. The good thing for that, thank you for that context because yes, we understand about the bracket supported decks, the rear bracket supported decks. Maybe just here from one more person and then we will take a motion. Okay, you've been unmuted. If you can state your name and I'll just for the record please. Okay, I am in a butter at 65659 Tremont Street. I'm also a trustee in the building and you know our owners are opposed for several reasons. Security, the imposition that it is putting on privacy from the back of the building. And also I would say kind of the responsiveness throughout the community process. This has been going on for a year and a half and we have not seen a lot of concessions within reason to our complaints and concerns. Thank you. So board members, oh yes, I know Mr. Christopher, do you have anything to say in response because there are a lot of still outstanding concerns. Do you have anything to say? Yes Madam Chair, thank you. The addition only comes off the building 13 feet. The state's hour, the stay well only extends about a foot and a half beyond that addition. It should also be noted that on the buddy property at 663 there is a current addition at the first level so that our stay well would not protrude too far past that about like a foot at grade and we've also committed with the stay well to provide logging hardware at grade and to provide some visual screening on the stay well to promote privacy. We also intend to use this as the secondary means of the egress. We don't see that people would be using that stay well regularly and the the decks being recessed into the building the way that they are in the upper level. There's not a mechanical room that will provide some separation from the a budding deck at 663 as well. Thank you. Given that information, given the history of rear decks in the community and other other neighborhood comments may have a motion please. We're going to make a motion to the night. It's our second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed motion carries? Okay, the last case of the day please. Thank you Madam Chair. I need to recuse myself in this case. The last case. Okay, so Mr. Regiro is recusing himself. Okay, let's move. On the last case of the day calling BOA 12034636316 tavers green. This is the report existing one story. Longer man with a new six story mixed use building with 30 apartments with floors through the two to six and two retail and parking on the first floor. The violation of Article 50 section 11, excessive FAR, Article 50 section 11, the bill and height is rated at 55 feet, Article 50 section 43 or speed parking and loading. David Address for the record please. Good morning Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is Patrick Mahoney with a business address of 160 Penal Street representing developer GES Development Close Kimmel. The proposed project before us today is seeking three variances. We are combining two lots actually the two lots headband combined upon building permanent application in the intent is to erect a six story building and we are seeking relief by way of floor area ratio. The allowed floor area ratio in the zoning sub district King 9 excuse me zoning sub district Dudley Square EDA is 2.0 we are seeking FAR of 4.0. Additionally the building height in the zoning sub district is 55 feet and the proposed building before you is 67 feet and finally we're seeking relief for parking. The design prior to BPDA has been changed for a flexible recent and great feedback from the board and other projects of multi-family residential in the area. Specifically including family type of housing we have changed the configuration to include two three better units of 16 two better units and 12 one better units of of the three better units one of them will be part of the IDP affordable housing. Again this is a condo building there will be one two better unit for affordable and two one better units a typical application of the IDP program would not include the three better units so that was something that the developer wanted to do officially. It's a honey one bedroom. There is 12. 12 one bedrooms what's the average square footage of the ones twos and threes? Certainly. The smallest one better unit is 645 square feet and it ranges to 730 square feet which is above the standard metro sizes. The two better unit again the smallest unit is 851 square feet and goes up to just under 11 hundred square feet and the three better units are just under 1200 square feet. Okay. Go ahead. There will also be two group two units. One is required for this size building and of the five parking spaces one will be accessible. Is this the developer that the project at um on Washington Street uh Warren is Warren Street? Is this the developer? No this is the developer that did 10 tables street next door madam chair. Okay so tell us how 10 table and 16 table are going to work together. That's a that's a great question. So 10 tables recently completed and 90% sold out. That was a 45 unit building uh mostly one bedroom and two bedroom units uh with 10 parking spaces of the 10 parking spaces only for our occupied so 90% of the building sold out only four of the applicants have cars and my client did forward a picture to me this morning to show me the street last night had no cars parked on its surface which I think is a good sign for this area. Now 10 table does not have any three better units this building does and again one of them is affordable. And so tell us about the parking at 16 table then? There's uh at 16 table there is five parking spaces access from Palmer Street which is a shared lot with 10 table it's granted access for a vehicle access it enters in from Palmer. Um there's five parking spaces there 42 bike spaces and there's also two retail units one of a a thousand square feet and the other one 1193 square feet in addition to the gym space and other common amenities there's a shower area which is required for bike riders of both of retail patrons and employees and residents of the building. Okay um any roof deck proposed? There is no roof deck manager. Okay um and then so the so I guess my question is um you're proposing to retail spaces and five five parking um tell us how you anticipate um providing parking for people who work at these facilities. So the next thing the parking is for the residential units this isn't a restricted parking overlay district so no parking is required for the commercial businesses we are hoping just like the existing building at 10 table that the patrons of the retail and other retail in the area rely on public transportation next door or the parking lot across the street. There is ample street parking which is not something I would normally not testify to but there has been no parking spaces from the videos presented to me from my client on both the folks parking on the street. Okay um is how are the plans miss um miss better? Better to the plans are adequate. Any questions from the board? I have a question for Mr. Hampton. Jeff you know this this this neighborhood is going to be seeing a lot of development in the very near future. At the I guess Haley House is closing its doors in the very near future but the development of that site um cruise got the approval for development of the site next to the library the other parking lot by the station is going to also be approved um and then this one as there's a lot of proposals for development um and of course um the Blaelot um and how can I forget parcel eight at the corner of Melnia, Cass and Harrison and of course uh befit Benjamin Franklin so I'm sure that all of them at some level have come in to have the parking parking needs reduced um can you tell us if there's been some um impact analysis not only on parking but also on the number of microunits versus regular units for this community? Such a question I didn't study for today. Oh my goodness uh but I can make a note I can ask uh the powers that be here if any studies have been done. Yeah because you know today everything might look also also comfortable with but with all these projects coming in without adequate parking you know at some point the neighborhood is going to be um you know really feeling the squeeze not only just the red not only the residential uses but the businesses that need to see that turnover um you know on their street so um I just put that out there. No that's fine I'll ask them I'll try to have an answer for you in the board. Thank you. You're welcome. Is anybody here to speak and support our in opposition if this proposal? Good afternoon Madam Chair and members of the board this is Jason Gantt with the Mayor's Office of the Neighborhood Services. This was a VPDA facilitated process but I do want to highlight that I did get three letters of support for the proposal and we are going to be deferring to the expertise of the board. Thank you. Madam Chair we do have letters of support. Um is is is City Council the new City Council back on? Yes. Use her. She's a panelist so please maybe here from you please. Good afternoon Madam Chair Arosu and board members I like to go on record. Tania Fernandez Anderson District 7 City Councilor in support of this project my office has received nothing but support from businesses and residents um zero opposition so again I'd like to go on record in support of this project. Thank you. So Councillor welcome um I used to see you because it's always good to hear from the Councillors themselves because I think it brings an extra level of attention to the community and to the project so we appreciate your presence here. I hope to support you. Thank you absolutely Madam Arosu I've heard so many good things about you we'd love to connect. Okay excellent anytime. Looking forward. No Madam Chair I have one raised hand. Karen you've been unmuted if you can state your name and address for the record please. Yes hi my name is first of all good day Madam Chair and board members. My name is Karen Bunch I'm at 45 Quincy Street here in Roxbury I am in support of the project I think that it would help lift up the community it would also help the small businesses in the area and also attract new business to come into the community so I'm very much in support of this project. I have one more raised hand Madam Chair. Yes one is caller number 24. If you can just state your name and address please for the record you've been unmuted. Caller number 24. Good afternoon Madam Chair members of the board of mine I'm Perez with the Carpenters Union want to go and refer to support of this project thank you Madam. Thank you. That's all Madam Chair. Okay given this information may I have a motion please. Madam Chair I'd like to put forward a motion of approval with BPDA design review to pay special attention to the exterior and also to examine the mechanical room to see if there's a potential to do screening versus a build out on the top floor. Okay and also Jeff in the design review and and council Mahoney can you make sure that this building is designed and is special attention is made so that it works well with that building that's already constructed and more importantly with the residential across the street because sometimes people in affordable housing or BHA housing tend to be overlooked so we just want to make sure that that that they are they are acknowledged in this process okay. Is there a second oh sorry is there a second okay all those in favor. I I any opposed motion carries thank you the meeting is magic the meeting is now adjourned and may I ask board members to stay on for a couple of extra minutes.