 you you you good morning the city of Boston zoning board with he was hearing from June 27, 2023 is now in session this hearing is being conducted in accordance with the applicable provisions of the opening law including the update of provisions enacted by the legislature last year. The new law allows the board to continue its practice of holding virtual hearings until March 2025. this hearing of the board is being held remotely via the We believe we are visiting the webinar event platform. This hearing is also being live streamed. In order to ensure this hearing of the board is open to the public, members of the public may access this hearing through telephone and video conferencing. The information for connecting to this hearing is listed on today's hearing agenda, which is posted on the public notices page of the city's website, Boston.gov. Members of the public will enter the virtual hearing as attendees, which means you will not see yourself on the screen and you will be muted throughout unless administratively unmuted when asked to comment. More members, applicants, and their attorneys or representatives will participate in the hearing as panelists and they will appear alongside the presentation materials when speaking. Panelists are strongly encouraged to keep video on while presenting to the board. As with our in-person meetings, comments and support will be followed by comments and opposition. The order of comments is as follows. Elected officials, representatives of elected officials and members of the public, the chairman limit the number of people called upon to offer a comment and the time for commenting as time constraints require. For that reason, the board prefers to hear from members of the public who are most impacted by a project that is those individuals who live closest to the project. If you wish to comment on New Peal, please click the raise hand button along the bottom of your screen in the Zoom webinar platform. Check, click it again and your hand should go down. When the host sees your hand, you will receive a request to unmute yourself. So yes, and you should be able to talk. If you are connected to the hearing by telephone, please press star and I to raise a low on your hand. You must press star six to unmute yourself after you receive the request from the host. Those called upon to comment will be asked to state their name and address first and then to provide their comment. In the interest of time and to ensure that you have enough time to do so, please raise your hand this is Mr. Stembridge needs to address into the record. Do not raise your hand before the relevant address is called or the meeting post will not know to call on you at the appropriate time. These instructions will be repeated throughout the hearing. Okay, Mr. Stembridge. Thank you. Good morning Madam Chair. Welcome. Thank you. Mr. Schaffer. Mr. Schaffer, do you present? The board of Madam Chair, please. Thank you. Good morning, Mr. Valencia. Good morning, Madam Chair. Present. Thank you. Good morning, Mr. Bette Brasic. Good morning, Madam Chair, present. Good morning, Mr. Panato. Good morning, Madam Chair, present. Good morning. And just to thank Ms. Panato in advance, this chair will be transitioning to Ms. Panato at the midpoint. And so I appreciate it in advance. Thank you. I'm hoping for a voice last that long. I do too. I'm so sorry. I'm sorry. With that, I'll turn it over to Mr. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. We'll start with the extensions for the Knox scheduled for 5.30 AM. First we have case VOA 118 755 with the address of RS 61 RS 3 which also has a companion case of VOA 118 7853 with the address of 63 RS 3. Is the applicant in the wood there, representative president? Good morning, Madam Chair, ma'am, Ms. the board. Attorney Larian's, casino from Richard Lins's office with that business address of 245 Sumner Street and East Boston. Here today seeking a one year extension for the project located at 61 and 63 Harvest Street. This project involves subdividing and erecting a new three family residential dwelling. The applicant got a little bit behind in financing due to COVID, but we're here today back on track in hoping to have a one year extension from August 6th of 2023 to August 6th of 2024. Thank you. Any questions from the board? When was this first approved? A back in 2021. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Would that have a motion? I'd like to make a motion to grant an extension from to August 6th, 2024. Thank you, ma'am, a second. Second. Thank you. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Shepard. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Bada-Baza. Yes. Ms. Panado. Yes. And I see Mr. Langen joined us so Mr. Langen. Yes. Thank you. The chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Thank you. Next we have case B.O.A. 962-337 with the address of 15 Russia Street. This is the first request for an extension. Decision due to expire by June 2nd of this year. If granted, the new expiration date is June 2nd, 2024. Is applicant and or they represent the present? Yes. Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board, the attorney Maddackle from Pletcher, Tilton, with the business address of 100 Franklin Street on behalf of Swyler Koushe and her family. We hear this morning as mentioned, seeking a one-year extension to the project at 15 Mercer Street in South Boston. This project was previously approved to change the occupancy of the building to a pre-family dwelling due to this being approved kind of near the tail end of COVID. And then some turnover with some sprinkler plans, things have gone longer than we hoped. But all plans have now been completed. And we are requesting the one-year extension so the final plans can be reviewed by ISD. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Hearing none may have a motion. I'd like to make a motion, the grant extension to June 2nd, 2024. Thank you, now the second. Second. Mr. Steinbridge. Yes. Mr. Shepard. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Bethe-Brasa. Yes. Mr. Panado. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Thank you very much. Next, we have case B-8, 1107041. The address of 1201 Saratoga Street. This is the first request for extension. Decision due to expire on August 18th of this year. If granted, the expiration date is August 18th, of 2444, is the applicant and or the representative present? Yes, I am, Mr. Steinbridge. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board, the 20th Derek Small. The representative of the business of one-dobs and little breakthrough mass. We're here today seeking a one-year extension of the approval is granted by this board, we'll project that 1201 Saratoga Street, which she was to erect a fixed-unit building with southern partner spaces. What's the reason for the extension? Do the COVID and some financial issues. We've done the delayed project a little bit, but we are back on track. Financing has been secure, though, and we're ready to go. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Completely. With that, may I have a motion? Hmm. Motion to approve. I'll make a motion to approve an extension until August 18th, 2024. May I have a second? Second. Thank you, Mr. Steinbridge. Yes. Mr. Shepard. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Pataparaza. Yes. Mr. Canado. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck, quick. Thank you very much, every day. Next, we have case B-O-A, 104, 4720, with the address of 3326 to 328 Washington Street. This is the first request for an extension, which is due to expire on July 9th of this year. If granted, the new expiration date will be July 9th of 2024. Is the applicant and or their representative present? We have a raised hand here on the second. Is it Phil and primary development? You guys look in the, is this your case? Hello, can you see me? No, you can primary development? Yes, this is White Converning. OK, let me just make you a panelist. And once you've become a panelist, you'll be able to unmute yourself and turn on that video. Come on, we can't. We can't. This is White Converning with primary development on the upper gate owner, which is Harris Opel. See primary development. And I'll say this is the cost of 80 territory Boston. They're costing the extension for 3326 Washington Street project. This is a multi-family company to make a plan or JP Rotts and Relay District. I print for ability. The project was approved also during COVID. And I'll be requesting the extension to continue to pursue financing and bring the project to by ability. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Mm-hmm. Hearing none, may I have a motion? Mausher, I would like to put forward a motion to rub off the extension until July 9, 2024. Thank you. May I have a second? Sorry. Mr. Stonebridge? Yes. Mr. Schoffer? Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Mr. Patapuraza? Yes. Mr. Panato? Yes. Mr. Langham? Mr. Langham? Sorry. Yes. Thank you. Chair Oslo, and Mr. S. Motion carries. Thank you very much. Good luck. Next, we have case B-O-A 909-744, the address of 11 Douglas Street. This is the third request for extension, which is due to expire on July 4th of this year. If granted, the new expiration date is July 4th, 2024. Is the applicant and the representative of the president? Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. Mark LeCas, the Casla, or the business Agile of 75 Arlington Street in Boston. This is a proposed six-unit residential building on a vacant parcel that is between two other buildings owned by this applicant at number 9 and number 15. So it would fill in a missing to, if you will, between the two buildings. Approvals were originally obtained. And through the last extension, the board confirmed that the COVID Act extension effectively rendered the first request unnecessary. So this effectively would be the second request for an extension. And the reason is that financing has been tricky. And they continue to pursue that and hope to be able to build the six units when financing is secure. The request for an extension is through July 4th, 2024. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Hearing none, that may have a motion. I'd like to make a motion to grant an extension to July 4th, 2024. Thank you, ma'am. Second. Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Schupper. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Berbaza. Yes. Mr. Panato. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Thank you, Chair Olson Woods. Yes, motion carries. Thank you so much. Next we have, excuse me. Next we have five companion cases. Those are case B-O-A, 606, 484. The address of 64 to 64 C Allenville Street. We also have B-O case B-O-A, 606, 486. The address being 66 to 66 C Allenville Street. With that, we have case B-O-A, 606, 487. The address being 68 to 68 B Allenville Street. We also have case B-O-A, 606, 488. The address being 70 to 70 B Allenville Street. And finally, we have case B-O-A, 606, 489. With the address being 72 to 72 B Allenville Street. I'll ask for the representative, applicant for the representative, to explain. Because there is a time-life, that's all that's important. Good morning. Chair, members of the board, Mark McCas, the cast, on 75 Arlington Street in Boston, attorney for the applicant and proponent of this project, the Wonder Group. I will explain the history of this case briefly as possible. The five companion cases before you were originally granted, relieved by this board in March of 2017. Thereafter, two separate, buttern challenges were filed in the Suffix Superior Court, one by Spring House Senior Living Community right next door. And another by a group of butters collectively in the neighborhood. Both of those cases were ultimately resolved in the Superior Court, one by settlement in 2019 with Spring House Senior Living Community. The other, however, was not resolved for another two-year period. After the Superior Court ruled in favor of the Wonder Group and dismissed the Abutter Appeal for lack of standing in June of 2019, the Abutters filed an appeal to the Massachusetts Appeal Scorts, which ran headlong into COVID, of course. And that appeal was pending until July 19, 2021. So effectively, the litigation stay was in place through July 19, 2021. And that was the day that the Abutters brief was due in the appeals court. And on that day, instead of filing a brief, they filed a voluntary notice of dismissal of their appeal, effectively finally ending before your legal challenge brought by the Abutters. So the decision became final on July 19, 2021, and the two-year period of validity runs through July 19, 2023. Since the dismissal of the Abutter Appeals, we filed and had approved by the BPDA, a notice of project change for a reduced in scale project, consistent with the settlement with Spring House. And we have also had BPDA design review of the plans of the reduced in scale project, which will utilize the same zoning relief originally granted by this board. The design review was approved by the BPDA in August of 2022. And plans are now proceeding to advance the project to the construction phase. It is 16 units of housing on a two acre parcel on Allendale Street. With that, we would request this is effectively the first extension through July 19, 2024, which is one year beyond the validity of two years following the dismissal of the final Abutter Appeal and Appeals board. Thank you, Mr. Elk. Any questions from the board? You're none. May I have a motion? I'm late. Is someone making a motion or Mr. Elkaz? Is this person part of your team? No. I'll make a motion to extend until July 19, 2024. Thank you, now the second. Thank you. Pardon me. We would like to offer public comment, please. If that's allowed. Oh, no, we don't do that. Sorry, I didn't want to. How do you do that with extensions? Not necessarily, it's not very common. You don't think it's required? I would advise yes to. Okay, then we will continue the voting. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Shepherd? Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Mr. Bada-Baza? Yes. Mr. Panado? Yes. Mr. Langham? Yes. Chair also will test the motion carries. Good luck. Thank you so much. Next we have Mr. Elkaz. Yes. Mr. Elkaz? Mr. Elkaz? Yes. Mr. Elkaz? Mr. Elkaz? Yes. Mr. Elkaz? We have KCBOA 982948, the address of 4843 Washington Street. This is the first request for an extension due to expire on August 25th of this year. If granted, the new expiration date is August 25th of 2024. Is the applicant mandor representative representative? Yes. Good morning. Thank you, Mr. Secretary Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is Kevin Fudier. I'm the Fudier Law from Logan Ed. 1990's Senator West Roxbury. I represent the owners of residential property of 4843 Washington Street. We're asking for this extension on a project that was initially approved by the board on 22nd of 2021 with a decision filing date of August 25th of 2021. The project involves an increase in the occupancy from two families to three families so that we can legalize a pre-existing third unit by adding dormer space and sprinkling the building. The product could receive unanimous support from the West Roxbury zone committee as well as the ZBA back in 2021 with some of the uncertainty in the housing economy during 2021-22 by clients for the pause board on the project. Though they have a pain BPD approval through the design proviso, they are also essentially compiled all of the requested documents to move forward with the building code review at ISP. So we'd ask this board's consideration for an extension of one year to allow the flip that process. Thank you. Any questions from the board? I'd like to make a motion to grant an extension to August 25th of 2024. May I have a second? Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Schupper. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Prasa. Yes. Mr. Panado. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Chair also wants yes motion carries. Thank you. Next we proceed to the board final operator hearing. Let's get with the 930. That would be case BOA. We want 41317. The address of 16 to 188. Barn clicks is the applicant and will represent available through its client. Good morning Madam Chair. I'm in for the board. John Moran, Elmine Advisory Services with the mailing address of 130 V. Charlotte Cornees Mass. Joining me in this presentation will be on Worthington, the architect. This board approved the election of a four unit townhouse with garage parking on April 11th, 2023. It was subject to provisos. BPDI design review with special attention for firmly pedestrian experience in one 10 foot curb cut. We are here today because the one foot 10 foot curb cut deprives access to the approved garage plan which bond will address in more detail. We can effectively create a zoning violation because the project requires four streets, four parking spaces. The board and considering the granting of the relief to provide to approve the project would review and I wish to review the area, the street and the surrounding traffic conditions. The street warring place is a short street running from warring street, a major artery meeting in Trenumberian Square, in terminating at Trevor Place in private way. Trevor Place runs from Dudley Street in Trenumbernays at warring place. On Warren Place on the even side there are three single family homes in our street parking. On the odd side of the street there are three decades. The project is located at the end of Warren Place. The parking shown on Trenumber Place is a street parking for a major residential commercial development on Dudley Street. That is the parking for the project on Dudley Street. The site locates a commercial one-story structure on Dudley Street. We suggest that Warren Place is not a pedestrian parkway that would have active and significant pedestrian traffic. It is at the end of Warren Place. It is not a walkway to Nuremi and Square or Nuremi and NBTA parking to have a transit. Part of the incentive for undertaking this project is the desire of the applicants to invest home ownership in their children. They are blessed to have two of their sons working in the business which is a real estate development and management company. The secured parking is sought because it would not require loading and unloading of vehicles used in the business in the maintenance aspect of the business. This is a minority rock-spray-based business. The applicants have been residents of rock-spray for more than 50 years. When we seek relief by removing the 110 foot curb cut, I would ask one to fill in additional details. Thank you, John. Bond Worthington, Architect, Business Office of 110A in Minstreet, Cambridge, Mass. Is it possible to share my screen or if not, can we pull up those EVA plans? I don't have the ability to share my screen. No, you don't. Thank you. If that is Jessica or controlling the screen, thank you. This letter is a great place to start. Many letters of support that we have received for the project and neighbors in the area that are in support of not only the project but their configuration with the garages and curb cuts. If you scroll down, there are some images at the end of this packet. Many signatures of support are being leaked. This is a view of Warren Place looking to the west, back towards Warren Street. To our right is Pevere Place, which is a private way. If you continue scrolling down, you'll see, actually, I'm sorry, that house that was in the first image on the right is to be removed this house that you're seeing here. This is where the development is going. If you keep scrolling down, you can see the house is in terrible shape, it's been demolished. This is looking down the private way, apologies for this being rotated. But there's no pedestrian experience here. There's no sidewalk on this private way and we're at the very end of Warren Place. There's a foot traffic that's pretty minimal here. There's no reason that anyone would walk this way as opposed to the New Means doubly street. Could you continue scrolling down please? Okay, this is looking back the other way. The development would be to the right of this white house here. The house has been demolished as the darker house in Santa Wright. We already looked at that photo. Here's a good view of Pevere Place. There are private parking lots here for the businesses on Dudley Street. Our project would be again where this red house is. There's really preserving the sidewalk on Warren Place to connect to nothing on Pevere doesn't really make sense. Plus we would be treating the, we'd have lighting and things that would actually improve the pedestrian experience on Warren Place. Can you continue scrolling down please? And then I think we have some slides of just the condition of the house. So this needed to be improved. Is it possible to bring up this zoning plans? And would it be helpful for the board to see to hear, look at the floor plans again and look at the units in a little more detail? I'm going to defer to that. Hands down that. Is that helpful to you? I think the architect can briefly just show the site plan just for other members to see the case that would be helpful, but it can be brief. I think the majority of us sat on the original case, but not all of us. That's correct. Chair. Yeah. I'm an ambassador. Are you able to pull up the site plan? And if not, Mr. Wringington, can you just speak to it? I know we all can pull up Google Maps as well. That's helpful for sure. Madam Chair, is BPD and BTD representatives online? I saw Mr. Domingo if you want to weigh in. Yeah, Mr. Domingo will be really great to weigh in on the site plan. Oh, hi. That's better for you, doesn't it? Oh, great. And Jeffrey and Jeffrey to their BPD a previous recommendation. Okay. For context. Sure. But before we do that, is it possible to actually see the ground floor plan of the architecture? This really isn't giving us a lot of info. If you continue one more slide after this. Sorry, one more. Okay, here is this shows one place across the bottom of the page and pivir on the right. You can see that we have individual curb cuts with some sidewalk between most of them. Essentially, it's four 10 foot curb cuts. By reducing the, by adding the provisor to go to one 10 foot wide curb cut, it makes it a technical infeasibility and meets with the townhouses that were approved don't really work as designed. Okay. Mr. Hampton, do you want to just briefly provide your, your context or previous? Yeah, thank you Madam Chairman. We stand by our recommendation that we made back in April. This is something that we're not in favor of. We're not in favor of someone having an approved project. They do have an approved project that does have provisos attached with. We're not in support of somebody having an approved project and coming back because they don't like provisos attached to it. We stand by our recommendation. We're not in favor of four curb cuts for one building. We understand the townhouses, but it is, look at it, it's one building. We believe in our recommendation, I think, is that the parking p and b reworked with one curb cut. I'll leave it up to Mr. Tabiko to confirm it denied that, but the BPDA stands by its recommendation. You'll be, you'll be, you'll be, not once. Thank you. Oh, hi Madam Chair, I remember the board about the NECO BTD. I agree with Jeff. The curb cut can be reworked and also the parking design. I believe can be worked as well. And I signed with the BPDA on this project. So that's my comment. I think this will be a pro and four curb cuts is kind of overkill. And so I just want to rework the parking. If we can, I'd like to work with the applicant to do so. Thank you. Thank you Mr. Tabiko. Any other questions from the board? Any additional comments from Mr. Wainathan? No, thank you for your time. Yeah, just to put some context, I was on that board as Jeff just mentioned. BPDA recommendation was to deny without prejudice. The full board heard the applicants and actually approved the project with provisile. And my recollection, what's that? The recommendation was to consolidate the garage entrance to one entrance for more accessible and better pedestrian experience. Thank you. Thanks for that recap. Any other questions from the board? Okay. Hearing none. Madam Chair, may I make a one final comment? Yes, sir. I suggest this is unique location with minimal pedestrian traffic. This board has approved in the past similar projects in a more moral part of the city. We are not creating, I would suggest, hazards to pedestrians because there would be minimal pedestrian access. This site was a problem. ISD had a number of housing court complaints filed against the prior owner and the applicant was motivated to undertake this project with specific uses in mind. That is, that their sons were occupied this project. Then we would again request the relief of approving the project as designed without the restriction of one central drug company. Thank you, Mr. Claren. Madam Chair, if I may. Yes, sir. I've gone past the poverty recently and I do confer with the proponents that there isn't, there isn't. There is literally no pedestrian experience in that area. Other than very, very minimal, for sure. In terms of, I appreciate and hope that Mr. Zubikov will follow on with them. One curb, four curb cuts may be overkill, but one has to be configured probably better than I know to get the vehicles in and out. So again, just in case that's not going to be anything going forward, but in terms of four cars being able to get out of one driveway pretty much that that would be challenging. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Stanton. Madam Chair, can I ask a question? Maybe smart for a heavier. Is it possible to, to, to approve the applicant in regards to removing the 10 foot provisile, but then to set a new, new provisile to suggest to work the parking layout with BTD and BP and BPDA? Great question. Yes, certainly. Okay. That sounds good. And then just for norm, I, I hear you. It is just in terms of urban design principles. Do we, do we want to advocate a city that lends itself to an urbanism that is automobile centric in the city? Or do we want to support kind of a happy medium? And so this project does rely on supporting car centric kind of urbanism as a stance. So I just wanted to acknowledge norms, feedback, but also to look at it in the context of just urban design. Good point, and coming to a medium-sized type of solution, I think would be better. Correct. I think you could do something like that. Great. Thank you. Thank you. I appreciate that. I think coming, meeting somewhere in the middle would be great. And so with that, may I have a motion that can lend itself to that? I'm sure if I may, I have another question. I'm so sorry. Go ahead. To, for the proponent, when we saw the project, if I remember correctly, one question was about, whether the way is for the project to prevent all the gases from the cars and the parking lot to come into the unit, the living room, etc. I think you mentioned at that moment that you were trying to fill out the ventilation. So did you resolve that issue or what is your solution to prevent that the films from the cars are going inside the apartments? There will be a mechanical engineer engaged on the project once we've came to approval and are moving forward. Thank you. The mechanical ventilation and gas can add doors and it's not an uncommon configuration that we're proposing. Yeah. And, Madam, should I just add, I know we approved a larger project I have staying on because it's a Madison Park project with that urban league site, which will significantly increase pedestrian activity in that area. Thank you. Okay. We've got, I mean, we have a motion. Madam Chair, I'd like to put forward a motion of approval with provisal, which is to remove the 10 foot curb restriction, but to work with that the advocate needs to work with BTD and BPDA on a parking solution that would make it more pedestrian friendly. More pedestrian friendly and still. And reduce and reduce the curb cuts. Yeah, that's pretty good. You have a second. Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yeah. Mr. Shepherd. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Betaparaza. Yes. Mr. Pignato. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. Motion carries. Good on. Thank you, Madam Chair and Madam Secretary Boyd. Thank you. Next, we'll move on to the 930 A.M. schedule, ground water conservation over the district. You agree? First, we have case. We have two companion cases being case B.O.A. 146.6902. The address of 440 Tramot Street. Along with that, we have case B.O.A. 146.6902. The address being 450 Tramot Street. Is the applicant and or the representative? Mr. Secretary, on behalf of the applicant, Matt Waller with the law firm of Robinson Cole offices at one Boston place, Boston, Massachusetts. Briefly stated, these are air matters concerning compliance of a proposed deep energy retrofit and renovation project at the Ever White apartments in the South End. The issue of forests is compliance with the requirements of Article 32 of the code given the project's location within the ground water conservation overly district. In attendance with me this morning are Phil Collin from Wind Development, the project developer, and Sarah Eba of the HB with Project Engine years. We submitted a presentation and would ask the moderator to pull that up if you could. Excellent. So I will hand it over to Phil and if you are the next slide, you'll take it from now. Thank you. Is that of course an elevated or Mr. Long? He was up until like two minutes ago. He might have jumped off. Okay. I'll go ahead and Phil is able to do it. So yes, so the project is on Tramot Street close to the Master of Bike Extension, the North End of South End. It is two separate buildings, one that fronts on three months read and the one that's separated by a landscape courtyard. The project includes I think is the initial description indicated renovation units non-structural but including exterior panels on the building. You can go to the next slide. This is an elevation from the deep tree monster in the next one would be an elevation. That's three months read, the first one was from the rear. The project is a VHA own land with the Web Department's limited partnership as the developer, as the sort of re renovated building buildings. The reason why we're here and I'll let Sarah take a few years is basically the substantial rehabilitation hook for G-Cott is what brought us here. Sarah wanted you to take a look. No problem. The next slide. My name is Sarah E. Bob from VHB where the sites of one near on this project located at 101 Wall of Street in Watertown. This is just a plan of the existing conditions. Properly lines are highlighted and blue here. Each lot is about 6,100 square feet but as you can see most of it is taken up by the two multi-family buildings. As Matt mentioned, they're owned in V by VHA so based on this project for the deep energy retrofit, the upgrade plays us in Article 32 of the building. However based on the existing site constraints until review on the couple of slides it's really obvious ball to provide infiltration on site. So if you don't mind going to the next slide. Just to provide a brief overview of the proposed site work. They are there will be some minor trenching to install upgraded utility lines and reconstruction of portions of the concrete pauses to make ADA to me ADA requirements. So along with the energy retrofit it created the need for condensate lines for each of the buildings and those will be connected directly into the internal refrain system. Next slide. Thank you. As I mentioned the building takes up the majority of each parcel. The building here is highlighted in gray on each of the individual parcels. The black circles that you see throughout the site are the bill peers supporting the building and there are multiple existing utilities you can see highlighted in the different colors, strain, sewer, water, etc. So really any subsurface infiltration would impact those existing utilities and potentially could undermine the foundations of the building. The HBS had extensive conversations with both both Boston groundwater trust and Boston water sewer mission to review the project and the constraints on site may have come to an agreement regarding the fact that infiltration is just not peaceful here. Great. Thanks. I think if you want to just go back up to the slide right after about now. So basically, I'm a seren indicated the request is for a waiver of the capture requirements of subsection A of section 32-6 while complying with subsection B of that section. And so I think we can we can stop here and take questions from the board. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Sanlène Lear you on. Yes, ma'am. Chair, good morning. More members of the board as well. Christian's and Ellie Boston groundwater trust. We do support the applicants request for a variance at this time along with Basuara and sewer. And this will be pretty much consistent with the way that the board has granted variances for projects like this over the years with the two primary purposes being one of the infiltration system or systems are installed. It would damage foundations of the existing or budding structures and two also in this case the opposition of the fill has a high amount of coal in it, which has some contamination with lead. And it would also lead to a migration if the recharges and was installed to that contamination outside. So based on all the documentation and the discussions that we've had with the applicant going back to I think as far as 2021 we support the request for a variance of this time. Thank you. Thank you. Any questions from the board? The advantage here. So this is a innovation and the question is if you are going to do the innovations in with the residents living there or you are going to relocate the residents during the renovations. I'm happy to answer that question. This is Phil Cohen on was when the office team. I lost internet earlier so thank you. Thank you for that and the rest of the team for covering for me. We are planning to do this as an in place renovation where the residents will have day spaces during the day and we're remodeling their bathrooms and kitchens without displacing any residents. Thank you. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? What is the time of construction and the ingredients of the tenants and what roles? We're hoping to start construction this year. I hope before the end of the year and all in all of the likely take about a year and a half. However, the inconvenience for the residents will be much shorter than that. A lot of the construction has to do with the new exterior facade to create the deep energy retrofit for the building. But the day spaces will be as temporary as possible. Hopefully residents will only spend a very brief amount of time out of their units and then be able to return. I know this is a G-card battle but you know who you are slightly for in our contract on this project. We've been working with Keith construction and pre-construction and it's likely that we'll continue working with them. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Was that man have a motion? I'm very glad to see that those partners, these two BSC partners are going to be renovated and I make a motion to approve the project. Second. Second. Mr. Steinbrinch. Yes. Mr. Schaple. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Brasa. Yes. Mr. Panna. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Chair also votes yes. The motion carries. Good luck. Thanks very much. Next we have case B-O-A, 136, 3981. The address being 2040 Street is the applicant and when they represent the president. Doug is that you? I'm sending out what questions. And then M-Stein is saying you have your hand raised as well. I need to wait until our hearing correct. Is that right? Yes. Is anyone on for this call? Yes. Mr. Panna. Can you raise your hand? I don't see anyone. You can hear what the representative of this case did. I'm using your cell for raising hand. I'm not seeing it. Is this part of the M-M? Yes. Sorry, I didn't know I could meet myself. I was waiting for you to do that. I was trying to raise my hand. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Chair and the board. I'm Matt Stein. I'm the designer of this project. I represent the honor and the GC staff in Okamara for the Kriper project at the Holyoke Street. I'm the only air of Boston landscape company located at 535 Albany Street, Boston, and just just jot right in. Thanks for bringing up the plans. I think everyone is going to be really happy, especially the groundwater. I'm not sure if the board recognizes that as a permeable space or permeable, but the design for this ultimately captures the potential of the water. I think we will capture up to 5 inches of rainfall, which is 4 more inches than required by Boston water and so on. There's one cool detail. You can scroll down one slide please. This is the existing, right? It was a black top area that's permeable. Then the decks are set on top of concrete, like pads on pads. It looks like the deck is permeable, but that's actually sitting on concrete. We discovered that when we demolished it. We're only adding 100 square feet of permeable surface by putting a paddy of down. If we count the green roof as permeable surface, then we're actually increasing the permeable surface by 300 square feet. Here we have one more. You can go down one more. Here on the right, there's a, please. Right there. You can see on the right hand side there's a circle that shows close up of the pavement pattern. These bricks actually have a product called forest cave set in between. There's two inches of, basically, gravel and binders of the water just towards point growth. The entire surface actually acts like a drain ring. The entire surface is high in course. Then we are in addition to that, adding four drains connected to pipes underground. Then all of that is sandwiched in 12 inches of aggregate and blossom water. The water in sewer allows you to say that that's point three open space per cubic foot. All in all, we have just so much drainage. I'm really excited to do this project because I've been landscaping in the south end for 20 years. I've worked on countless projects and I've been waiting for a project that could do something that was so appropriate for really capturing groundwater. So, sort of, ecologically future forward instead of a typical dig a big hole that just, it's filled rats anyway. Any questions? Thank you, Mr. Stein. Mr. Somenali. Mr. Stein, I'm Mr. Stein. I'm Mr. Somenali. Mr. Stein, I'm Mr. Stein. I'm Mr. Stein. I'm Mr. Stein. I'm Mr. Stein. I'm Mr. Somenali. Mr. Stein. I'm Mr. Stein. I'm Mr. Stein. I'm Mr. Stein. I'm Mr. Stein. Look at this. We certainly like the design of it. We'd like to see more of it. I would add a note for the applicant. These systems are only as good as long as the voids in these spaces are clear. So, maintenance is of the utmost importance when putting in something like this. So, I would encourage the applicant to maintain a regular maintenance schedule to keep these voids open, whether that's power, or washing the rat can sweep. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Here are none, ma'am. Motion. Motion to a cruise. May I have a second? Second. Mr. Sandbridge. Yes. Mr. Shepard. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Bervard. Yes. Ms. Benado. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Chair also looks, yes. Motion carries the welcome. Thank you very much and thank you, Christian, for the maintenance. And that is absolutely part of the grant. Sounds good. My pleasure. That a great day, everybody. Next we have... Yes. Next we have case B-O-A146-6403. The address being 18, welcome square. It's the applicant and the way they represent the president. Hi, Bradley. Are you... I might be the hall of group. Hall of companies, I need to speak on this proposal. You're on mute. You're on mute. You're on mute. Oh. That, yeah, we can hear you now. Hi, these are Nicholas. I'm with the hall of companies on behalf of our sports, the owner. We're putting in a groundwater system here. Pretty standard. We do it on a lower projects. We got a wetter from our civil engineer with a no-hound wetter. And that's pretty much what I have. Mr. Seminelli, do you have a comment? Yes, Madam Chairman. I'm with the board. Christian Seminelli, bus driver. We have both letters from the applicant. Okay. Any questions from the board? Hearing none, I'm with the House of Promotion. A question to approve. May I have a second? Third. Second. Thank you for the second, third and fourths. Mr. Sembridge. Yes, Madam Chair. Mr. Schumann. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Betaparrazo. Yes. Mr. Pannato. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Chair, also once again, Mr. Carries. Good luck. Thank you. Next, we have moving on to the 9.30 AM hearings. I'll ask if there are any request for withdrawals on the growth at this time. Mr. Sembridge. Sorry. Go ahead. It's Richie. So you can go ahead. Thank you, Mr. Betrie. Mr. Sembridge. Mr. Sembridge. 74th Forest Street. 74th Forest Street. That would be case B-O-A-145-9061. With the address being 74th Forest Street. Anything you'd like to say about this? Yes. Thank you, Madam Chair. Members of the board. Richard Lins. We have a business address of 245th Sunder Street East Boston, the average petitioner. Madam Chair, I'm just the board. We've reviewed the ETA's recommendation of respect to this project. And we believe that this could benefit from a few changes. So we'd like it a throw to modify our proposal and come back and present the modified plan. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Would that have a motion? Madam Chair. Oh, I'm sorry. Yeah, I'm sorry. How much time would that have to apply on right? I think what dates are we looking at, Mr. Salis? The next available could be July 25th, so we could first pass that August 8th if you think you'd need more time. I think July 25th could be a little quick. So maybe the earliest one that you have in August would be best. Okay, August 8th without any delay. Great. Thank you. Would that have a motion? I make a motion to deferral to August 8th. And have a second? Take a minute. Mr. Stonebridge. Yes. Mr. Shepherd. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Patapraza. Yes. Mr. Conato. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Charles of Once Yes, motion carries. Thank you very much. Any further requests? Yes, Mr. Stembridge. One, two, two, two, two, Washington Street, please. So that would be four case VOA. One, three, six, eight, three, eight, eight. Yeah, address of one, one, two, two, two, Washington Street. If you would, explain for us, please. Yeah, good morning. Man Chair, members of the board. This is Mike Ross, attorney of the Law from the Prince of Bell. I'll be a half of the applicant. This is a notice and advertising issue. The individual parcels that are associated with this address were not included in the notice or purpose. And therefore, upon discussion with attorney Colbert and of ISD, we all believe in most, to correct the notice issue, the best way to do that is to re-advertise and include all the individual parcel numbers. So we're requesting a deferral to allow for enough time for re-advertising of the matter. I mean, yeah, what are your dates? Yeah, the list one. I would recommend August 29th just to get there. Not that time. Yeah, that would be good. Okay, Mr. Ross. Interesting. August 29th. Was that man of emotion? Just a little bit further. That's good. That's the man of emotion. I made a motion until the 4th, August 29th. Man, the second. Thank you. Mr. Temperidge. Yeah. Mr. Schaffer. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Beter-Raza. Yes. Mr. Panado. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Okay. Mr. Karr also votes yes, the motion carries. Okay. Any further requests for withdrawals of the bill for this time? Yes. Okay. Okay. Is that the reward chart? Oh, is Mr. Fair Weston trying to defer something here? Yes. Yes. Nineteer for 930? We're 1130. Okay, so we'll call that at that time. Thank you. Mr. Stembridge. Okay. Next we have case. The case. The OA. 144. 8465. The address being 78 Julian Street. It's the applicant and whether you represent the president. Yes. Good morning, Madam Chair. Good morning, Mr. DeFort. There are cops in here. License general contractor. What a business address of 8 Woodville Park. Here for the owner, Tony Rivera, regarding 78 Julian Street. We're proposing three family residential dwelling specific for more income. It's going to have three off-trees park and spaces, excuse me. And the design completely aligns with the M.O.H.'s housing standards. Two bedrooms, 1160 square feet per bedroom. Thank you for doing the slides. We're going to do a hearty plank sighting. A PVC trim. 30-year architectural shingles. It's going to have an unfinished basement. You see the window view factor. We can scroll please. Next slide. These are just so it's going to have a rear deck for the egress in the rear. The basement exit that be unfinished. And that's pretty much it. I can take any questions with you. Thank you. Can you just clarify? I know you just noted, you know, specifically for low income. But you're not, these are not going to be deconstructed. Are they? No. Did you restrict it now? Okay. So there's no way for us to confirm that they will be sold as lower income loans. I just want to put that out there. I mean, that's fine. But I just want to clarify your saying low income, but it's not like deed restricted for that. Oh, no. It's not deed restricted for low income. And the building isn't going to be for sale. Okay. The owner lives next door at 82,000,000. And it's the building she's looking to own in May 10 to add some, you know, some departments to the commonwealth. Thank you. But you mentioned major M O H mayor of housing in the major. Are these prototypes from them? So in the building's design, we refer to the mayor's office of housing design standards. And that specifies minimum bedrooms and our units. And we online, we exceed some of the areas regarding that. So our minimum would be for two back home, the minimum square 150 square feet. We're going to have 1160. Right. But you're just adopting the design standards. That's right. You're not getting subsidies from mayor. No, there's no subsidies. We'll just tell it, you know, that's perfect. Okay. What do you buy from? Yes. Okay. Other questions from the board? Yes. Yes. Yes. I'm sorry. You're right. Someone can mute. Just go, can you mute? Anyone who's not. Thank you. Go ahead. Miss Garbasa. I think someone else was before me. Oh, that was you. You can go ahead. I'll go ahead. You can go ahead. So this is more of, do we ever represent it from the mayor of housing? Yes. We ever represent it from the mayor of housing. We ever represent it from the mayor of housing. Online. Maybe Jeff Hampton from BPD. It's Jeff. I'm here. Miss Garbasa. Okay. So, Jeff, this is, this is the comment that I made before on the prototypes coming out from mares of housing that don't really address issues of accessibility. But we've received a note from Sarah's Tilton, who was from the mayor's commission for personal disability, where she made comments in regards to making the front entry more accessible. Can you please make a note? This is the second time I request this to have mares of housing if people are using it as a prototype to address that issue. Right. So there's no conflict with mayor's commission for personal disability. Right. You know, I agree with that. Is better for us and as you can see, we've recommended for full with design. Everyone was clear. But I think can address that issue. Correct. All right. So. Can you please pass that information? I shall. Okay. I'll ask you someone, Kristen, who looks to be on for mares of office of housing, because I think Ms. Bervardz is bringing up some of the general policy slash design issue so that they can reconcile and be more aligned. Is Kristen here to speak? So again, sorry, Derek. This is. Oh, no worries. This is basically. It's a general. It's a feedback received for your project. But I don't think it's just your project. It's. I think the feedback. And when you were done, I wasn't asked you to go to the front elevation of the building because it shows specifically a clear entry way. See, you just go straight in. There's no stands. And Mr. Bervardz is actually dedicating the first unit to handicap accessibility. So we're going to be working with the architect to tweak that design. So initially it was just going to be low income, but some past and time passed and she decided she wants to do the first floor of the handicap accessibility. Okay. Okay. Sorry. Did you, Ms. Bervardz, there is someone from mares of housing that you just want her to comment briefly and then I know Mr. Langham had a question. Yes. If she can comment on the feedback and that I just mentioned. Yes. I mean, Kirsten, are you. I don't know if she's elevated to panelists or if you can do so in the meantime, Mr. Langham, you could ask your question. Yes. Yes. I'd like to have just a small question. I was just curious. How's the pocket situation on Julian Street? Um, where we are, we have. She has this properties. I think we have parking for three cars. The property is actually going to have parking for three cars in a rear. But the two top houses on the street has parking. The parking in tight everywhere. And that's why we implemented a small building to accommodate parking in the rear for each unit. Thank you. All right. Those lines that share. Mr. Domingo is still with us. We had a comment regarding that. Mr. Domingo, do you want to comment? No, Mr. Stembridge, maybe you want to read it into the record? Uh, to do that for a semi-dual history, the project should have two spaces. Parked at a 60 degree angle. Was safe. For the comment that we received from Mr. Domingo. Thank you. I think it's a great question. The screen looks frozen. So I think he may not be with us. Any other questions or comments from the board? So just one comment. Derek, I did review your plans. And although your front door is accessible there, you do have to go up. Oh, and the four risers to good to the first unit says not that that's what that's what our. That's what Sarah Tilton was commenting on from the mayor's commission for personal disabilities. Yes, and we recognize that as well. So we're going to go back with the architect and make those tools. Okay. So if mayor of housing, if she can speak on the prototypes and what they're doing to address accessibility issues. Yeah, certainly. Can you guys all hear me? I can't speak to the specific design issues. The reason that I'm attending here is because this is the site. I was one of the mayor's housing yard health site that was sold about 20 25 years ago. And so there we will impose a geostriction on at least one of the units to ensure affordability in the long term. I've spoken with the developer and owner just briefly about this. And so we'll be working on that to solidify the details about everything going forward. Kirsten, I think my comment was basically the developer was using the mayor's of housing prototype examples to kind of inspire their design. And we've seen come some past projects coming forward without an accessible unit. So we're usually using the stoop technology. So we just want you to be in alignment with Sherat Tilton and addressing some of her concerns with accessibility to units. Yeah, I understand that one of these units is going to be accessible. And after this meeting, I will follow up with our design team to ensure that all of our, you know, I understand. One of the prototypes. Yes. Thank you. Thank you, Lou. Any other questions from the board? I just want to pick up on VTD's comment about two spaces because I think that would also allow some green space on this site. It looks like the entire site is covered with the building or paving. So I would like to sort of ask the applicant, can we see some permeables surface on this driveway and paving in with the elimination of one of the spaces some landscaping? Yes. We're also looking to do, I guess we're making tweaks with the architect. We're looking to do enclosed trash receptacle area as well as pleasing in some open space. We're trying to do 300 square feet of open spaces. But we're not going back before the architect. Thank you. Okay, was that man public testimony? We got a warning madam chairman with the board. I was pleased to comment on what the mayor's office and neighborhood services, the applicant has completed their community process at this time. Our office is held in a butter meeting in April this year where a butter express concerns are over the project with one butter explicitly supporting the project. Other letters of support or opposition have been emailed to the ZBA and our file with them at this time. I was not notified of any stance, the little civic group is taken, but at this time would like to defer to the board's judgment. Thank you. Madam Chair, would also like to add, he's a tenant of the mayor's office and neighborhood services. I would also like to add that the black street of the council expressed concern regarding the registration for the applicant has confirmed already in the mayor's office housing, which is part of the job. Thank you. Any other rain stamps? No, I'm just going to give you a little bit of a test and I'm going to the rain. Actually, the rain, I know she's in the elected official's office. We'll start with the rain. Any good or Christian? You know, you can hear this. Maybe we'll be back. Go ahead. We attended a meeting with the Sustainable Development Committee of Douglas Stregnable Initiative, where this project received overwhelming support. And so the City Councilor, Tanya Fernandez Anderson, gives her conditional support to the project. However, we were waiting for the information that was delivered today by Kirsten Stubley and to make sure that the requirements of the yard sale were complete. So thank you. Thank you. Okay. We're going to give testimony. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. We'll be working with the developer and owner on an ongoing basis to outline specific parameters of affordability and this be restriction on at least one of the units that will require. And the waiting of IQ of more details, I will make a sure to wrap. Thank you. Any additional listening? Was that me? I have a motion. Madam Chair, I'd like to put for a motion of approval with Provisal to have BPD design review and BTD review to reduce parking to two to allow for an increased open space and for one unit to be designated as affordable with MOH. Okay. Madam Second. Second. Madam. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Schuffler. Yes. Mr. Roncia. Yes. Mr. Berberaza. Yes. Mr. Motto. Yes. Mr. Lainham. Yes, ma'am. Thank you. The Chair also votes yes. The motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Next, we have case BRA 139-8805. The address of 46 May, you speak. If the applicant in or their representative president. Can you raise your hand if you're on to this proposal? Thank you. What's in this little stuff? I'll see anybody on. Okay, do you want to go to the next one? We'll come back to this. Good. But then you move on to that. Then we want to please be away 136. 09. 01. The address of 88 Maverick Street is the applicant and what their representative present. Thank you, Mr. Emeridge. Thank you, Madam Chair. I'm Mr. Board of Attorney Jeff Trego with Trego and Tuscano with the business address of 11 Beacon Street. If we go to the next slide, we'll be right here on behalf of Mike Stuchens, the owner of the proposal project. We also have that in the last minute, the architect for the proposal. This is to confirm the existing occupancy and then change it from a three unit building will four unit to completely got one of eight the building and erect a fourth story, addition and a rare addition. The particular building is located in the Maverick Square area right right outside of the square. If we go to the next slide, please, what we're looking at is a rendering the existing building, which is the smaller building there now that's actually three stories and has been abandoned and left unattended for years until my client just recently purchased it. So this will be completely renovated this part of the proposal. We're seeking to add a fourth story and addition and then a rare addition right now. There are existing rare decks on the property. Those decks would be removed to their important addition. The rare extension would only go low as far as those existing decks and fill the back and give these rooms for functionality right now. They're very, very tiny one bedroom units and this proposal would allow us to have larger living space area one bedrooms, but also on the top floor, the third and the fourth would become two types units that would have office space in the large open floor plan for the kitchen and living area. If we go to the next slide, please. This area is right within short walking distance right to the next block to Maverick T station, which makes it great for those commuting and you can see there are mold they fit in the residential all around it, although the buildings to the left and right of which we had support. Three story buildings if you look across the way along Paris Street and other across the street, there are four story for precedent. Just to point out, we first have filed this project. We're proposing to add some additional living space in the basement. I know that was mentioned at the BPDAs recommendation. As we filed, we discovered this balance with G-Cod in flood hazard district. We immediately approved that basement space so that would only be used for storage in this proposal. And we did submit everything required for an alarm letter for G-Cod. For you're the next slide, please. Just to go over the floor plans, the basement will remain unfinished just for storage. Unit one is a one bedroom, 614 square feet. Unit two is a one bedroom at 667 square feet. And then the third and the fourth floor are set 54 and 627 respectively. And those are by level units. They would have that fourth addition, a fourth floor addition at the third floor. Just to note that the proposed height we really worked on keeping that down. We're only adding three feet, ten inches total to the existing structure of the building. Just to go over the violations that were mentioned, we are seeking a variance for four unit. This is a 3F district. We would require for FAR relief for height for that being at 37 feet 8 inches. And four stories is a 35 foot height district. We are not able to create any parking. So we do have a parking variance. There's not there. There's no existing parking. We are, as I mentioned, right across from Maverick T Station. And we also work to agreement with our rear-butter loans, a parking lot, to lease for two years, two spots. And then with an option to read new after that, just to give those folks that would be moving in here, an option to have some parking paid for by the developer. And it was just something we worked with on the Maverick Central Group as well. And then just a rear yard, it's existing at 8 foot 4. That does require variance for not going out any farther than the existing debts. And in the rear, we match the building back of us. Madam Vast, if you could switch to the plans, just so the board could just see those. The existing floor plans. And if we go to the next few slides, these are all existing plans. And these are existing where the porches are. And then we go to the proposed right here. If we go to the, these are the proposed units that I had gone over as well. I can pause and answer any questions that the board may have. Thank you. Mr. Gagel, just to confirm, there is no living space in the basement. You said that was storage only. Correct. Okay. Any questions from the board? Hearing none. I would like to probably test the money. Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, we're honored in with the Airsoft's paperhood services. Madam Mayor's office is deferred to the judgment of this board. Our office is also in the butterspeed on July 6, 2022. I know the butters were reported to be in attendance. The applicant went on to meet with the Maverick Central Neighborhood Association September, October of 2022. The association voted to support the proposal. We're unaware of any concerns at this time. We also received several letters of support from the community as well. I would without it deferred to the board. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Kristen Summally, Boston Brawler, trust, and we have both letters from the applicant for G-Cut. Thank you. Okay. I have no question. Great. I'll be just to confirm, do you need two separate votes? One for G-Cut, or can we do that together? Sorry. Yeah, you can do that together. Okay. Any other questions from the board? And can you let us know what the BPD recommendation was for the project? Sure. Can I have Mr. Parra? Or can I just argue and try and speak on this? I'll leave that afterwards. And I'm going to share members of the board. My name is Adash and Parra from Cossack, Canada's office. It based on Maverick Central Neighborhood Association's vote that Cossack would like to go on support of the project. Thank you. If Mr. Hampton and Chair, I mean, that is brought to us for the recommendation, can you be a recommendation? Yes. Thank you, Madam Chair, members of the board. Mr. Parra, we recommend that tonight without prejudice because of the living space at the base, because it's in the coastal flood. But we appreciate the appellance removing that. And if the board does seem fit to improve this, we just ask for the design to be good. Thank you. Thank you. Would that have a motion? I'll make a motion to approve with BPD8's sign review and no building code relief. And the G-Cod? And the G-Cod approval. Madam, a second. Thank you. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Shepherd? Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Mr. Berraza? Yes. Mr. Connato? Yes. Mr. Langham? Yes. Chair also. Let's yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you very much. Next we have, next we have case BO81464017. The address being 76 Frankfurt Street, the applicant and board they're representing. Yes. Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Richard Lins with a business address of 245 Summarshootings boss at the half of the petitioner. With me also is Chris Drew from 686 architects. We'd probably jump right down to slide 8, which is the street view of the property. We'll probably get my order to you. As a culinary matter of Madam Chair, although not cited in the public notice, I do know that it's important to the record that the plans examiner had cited in his notes two matters. First of the neighborhood design overlay district, which we acknowledge that this property is located in. However, it does indicate that design reviews necessary because of the NDOD subdistro overlay district. We aren't making any changes that would follow the jurisdiction of the NDOD. Therefore, we just like it to be clear on the record that this would not be subject to an NDOD process. In addition, we also note that the examiner cited the coastal flood resiliency overlay district in that conservation would be required for this project. Just again, if the board's clarification of the record, the coastal flood resiliency overlay district, although it's jurisdictional in this neighborhood, the project size does not fall within the threshold of the CFROD. Therefore, again, it's noted in the refusal letter I just want to be clear on the record that we would not be subject to coastal flood resiliency guidelines for this project as it doesn't meet the threshold for that review. With that said, Madam Chair, this is a preexisting, legally preexisting non-informing structure. It's currently legal occupancy is six units. However, historically, it has been used and occupied as a bi-unit dwelling, which isn't a very good deal. It's not necessarily material. However, because we are proposing a renovation of the entire building, including capturing some space off of the rear gas to incorporate this habitable living space, we do trigger the FAR violation of our Article 53 Section 9 code. If we can jump down to slide 13, that will give us a little bit better overview to give. This is the existing conditions planned for the site. We do have some non-conformance included in the left side yard, as well as I mentioned, the FAR currently is an access of the 1.0 that is permitted. Because we would be increasing the FAR based upon the space that would be capturing towards the rear, we would require one variance essentially for this project, that's the FAR variance, to increase it to the proposed limit. If we can scroll down to slide 18, these are existing conditions that we can just move on to 18 to show the proposed conditions. So, yeah, even though we are located in the coastal flood resizing the overlay, we are not proposing any work in the lower level. We do propose to modify, obviously, the program of the first level. That would be a three-bedroom and about 1,200 square feet. Again, these are all generally existing conditions currently. The only changes would be renovation and reprogramming of units, including upgrades to life safety. Next slide please. So, we show the second and third levels here, where we have two smaller units located to the front of the building. Again, preexisting conditions, with just some slight changes in the program of the building and the layout. The two units to the rear units, three and five are two better units, about 820 seven square feet each. We go to the next slide please. We do propose some changes to the side of the building. There are some windows that will be closed up in connection with the reconfigurational layout. But again, we don't believe that that triggers any of the neighborhood design overlay issues that would normally be reviewed out of the NDOP guidelines. Next slide please. I'm just showing again the left side of the building as well as the rear in these proposed conditions so I'm showing the closing up of several openings on the side of the building. I will pause the area this morning. It's also, I'm sorry, it's also subject to GPID, so I believe we do have the no-harm in the bus line of the sort of manner and I'm happy to answer any questions before. Mr. Semmelon, do you want to confirm that first? Yes, ma'am, Mr. Boer, Christian Semmelon, the bus of ground trust, and we have both key covers from yet. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? I have one question. Yes, sir. Yeah, I just want to know why they close in these windows. I believe Chris Drew on our attack to this present, but I believe in as a government reconfiguration, so Chris, we can explain that. So this is just a pretty good reason to solve some of these windows with some of the things we do about where we make a big part of the building because that was in that room, the location of our personal house. Any other questions from the board? They're in nine, can I plug the testimony? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, honored with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. It's time the Mayor's Office to defer to the judgment of this board. When I posted a butter's meeting on December 6, 2022, there were no butter's in attendance. The applicant went out to meet with the Ghosts' citizens Association in November of 22 in January of this year. The Association unanimously agreed to support the projects. Our residents were reportedly very pleased with the design, with that with the Fertiline Board. Thank you. Sebastian? Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. Once again, Sebastian, the Councilor Coleta's office, and based on Ghosts' Street Citizens Association vote, and the Council will let you go and support this project as well. Thank you. I have no additional questions. With that, I'll have a motion. Thank you. Madam Chair, I'll make a motion. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I'll make some motion approval with the PPA Design Printed on the exterior. And the crew of Jicot in a crew of Jicot. Madam Chair, if I may, I don't mean to step on this federal arson's toes. I would not propose any exterior or visible exterior modification, other than that, but I'm going to put some windows on. I'm hoping that PPA Design Review can be avoided, if the circumstances are so agrees. Okay. Jeff, are you okay with that? Removing? Our recommendation was only if there were exterior changes that no building code really speak. I didn't see any. So I think what we'll do is just then do a motion of disapproval. Thank you. Thank you. Jicot and approval. Thank you. Madam Second. Mr. Steinbridge. Yes. Mr. Schupper. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Miss Betaprazo. Yes. Miss Benojo. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Thank you very much. Thank you. The following move then to the hearing schedule for the day. We'll ask if there are any requests for the first row of the draw. 21 holds in the street. The first one. Be seated. Be your way. 1, 2, 5, 8, 6, 2, 4. The address of 21 holds in the street. Thank you. Madam Chairman, I was floored to take Jeff Drego with Drego and Tuscana with the business address. 11 Beacon Street. We are seeking a withdrawal for the application due to the fact that we significantly changed the project. It went from an existing ERT to an ALT application. Talking with the plans, Senator, we need to withdraw and refile the entire plant for a new application. Madam, thank you. Any questions from the board? Would that have a motion? And in chair, I'd like to put forward a motion withdrawal. May I have a second? Second. Let me have a second. Mr. Stonebridge. Yes. Mr. Schoeller. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Bader Baraza. Yes. Mr. Bennado. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Thank you. Are we going back to the previous case? I'm going to take the first. I'm sorry for 1130 or just no? We only had 1106. We're on schedule. Just wait. We just go back. Go back. Yeah. So do you want to finish if there are any other deferrals for 11 and if may who came back? That would be a good question. Thank you. So if there are any other requests for going through the growth of this time, right? Yes, please. Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is Timothy Burke. I'm a architect for the project at Sixth Grinich Court. And we are requesting a deferral. The ISD has identified a citation for groundwater for the G-COD that was in the original refusal letter. So we have to re-advertise for that. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Without any help, motion. I make a motion for the deferral. I have a second. Second. Mr. Stemberg. Yes. I think I need to read the cases into. I'm sorry. That's okay. That's okay. This motion is for case B-O-A, one with three, six, seven, one, three. With the address being six, Greenwich Court. Okay. Great. So we had a motion in a second on my voting, Mr. Stemberg. Yes. Mr. Schupper. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Betapraza. Yes. Mr. Canado. Yes. Mr. Lingham. Yes. Chair also. Yes. Motion carries. Madam Chair, it's not. This is August point. That's fine. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Come on. Auto. Auto. You're welcome. Yes. Are there any other request for the 12th of the row from Stemberg? Is not. Thank you for the reminder. The folks that need to go back to the time troubles. 930, Stemberg. And ask for your any representative. ask that you're an representative of 46 May. There's a problem. I saw them. Can you unmute yourself, Winston? I'm here. Okay. Identify yourself here, addressing of the Pakistan-Berogued Corcorzo. Yes. Hello. Yes, we can hear you, sir. Yes. My name is Liza. I'm the contractor. And the proposal is extend the basement to leave a room because the family have two people of four and a family, mother, father and two teenagers and the space to short. And you won't have the basement replaced the case, step case, the new bathroom, office because the father of war in a home, okay, office space, lever, lever wound space and gene and the one extent for silence. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Okay. Hearing none, can I have public testimony? Is there public testimony for 46 May you? I'm sorry, Madam Jam, just waiting for it to come in. I'm afraid our liaison stepped up. Oh, no worries. I'm no additional raise hand outside of that. Okay. We'll give you a moment this journey. Thanks. I will testify. I don't believe we're aware of any concerns at this time. Mayor's office elected deferred to the board. Thank you. Thank you. With that, Mayor, I'm pushing Madam Chair. I'm going to go to the council for a makers office to go on working in support. Thank you, sir. And Madam Chair, would you like to add that the civic association did vote to support this project from right understands. I believe you floored a letter from them, so we should be on file. One of a butter was an attendance at the letters meeting and vocalize their support for the proposal. Thank you. Thank you, sir. With that, maybe we may have motion. Madam Chair, I'd like to put forward a motion of approval with the PA design review and another provider that there be no public relief. May I have a second? Sir, Mr. Stonebridge. Yes, Mr. Shepard. Yes, Mr. Valencia. Mr. Bervazim. Yes. Mr. Nato. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Chair, also votes. Yes, motion carries. The lot. Thank you. Thank you so much. Next, we have case. Be away. One for six. Eight one three nine. With the address of the 1789 Commonwealth Avenue. This is our 80th project. Just the applicant and with their reference. Yes, thank you, Mr. Stonebridge. Thank you, Madam Chair, members. The Lord and Attorney Jeff Drego with Drego and Tuscany with the business address of 11 Beacon Street, Airbnb, out of the client city, real D. You can say in this slide, please. Madam Master, thank you. And I also have Dan R. T. Just with embark with the architects who you'll hear from in their moment. Again, this is the project that you're looking at before you did go through a whole process and was voted approved by the BPD or the proposal. And as you can see in this picture, that front part of the building, that's an existing structure. The proposal is to renovate the existing two story structure and then to erect a rear five story edition on the back of the building, which would be connected. And with a total of 39 residential units and 17 interior parking spaces in the back section, the particular lot size is 21,521 square feet when combined. When you look at this, you can see we had this was our most updated iteration. We started the proposal. We had a much different project. It was to raise the structure and build the building that looked much different as we, as you may know, this falls in the Aberdeen, a historic district. It also through the process was recommended to keep the front building that was very important to the community. So this is where we came up with the design to keep and rehab the front part of this structure and then continue on with the residential housing in the rear off of Kahnab. This particular, if you go to the next slide, please. And this is just looking at how that's connected on the side of the property. A next slide, please, Justin. As you can see, this particular building falls in area of Kahnab's large style parking complex behind us in the back as well as directly across the street. Although this does fall in the three-out district, it touches upon both like commercial as well as multifamily residential on either side. This particular project is a falls within the guidelines of the Austin Brighton Mobility Study because it's located directly across from the Green Mine M B T A, Chiswick Road station, making it great for community access. And it also is connected to many bus routes right in front. This particular building and as we went through the process, we did affordability was important to this community. We are at an 18% affordability rate for the project and that includes seven IDP units with a mix of five of them being at 70% AMI and two being at 100% AMI if we could go to the next slide. This just shows you the highlighted area of the parcels when combined. As you can see, it's a pretty steep topography as you go back, but you start to see the landscape surrounding us and the other sort of large structures across the street and at the rear to the side. Next slide, please. And I bought just put together here just a height on text so you can see the very heights, some 10, 8, 5 or just in this general area up and down comic wells have. Next slide, please. We also just a point out where I turn it over to Dan, have a mix of housing stock. We've got 12 studios, 15 one beds, 72 beds and five three beds, the studios range from 450 square feet to 745. The one beds range from 600 to 76, the two beds range from 735 to 1,055 and the three beds, which are their five of the right from 950 to 1300 and square feet. At this point, I'd like to turn over to Dan to touch upon his points. Thank you, Jeff. Good afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the board, Dan Reticis with embark at 580 Harrison Avenue in the south end. This is the existing condition survey of the site. As you can see on the right hand side of the screen is the full print of the existing two story building as part of the project will be not only keeping the building but also restoring it to its former position as a craftsman style home matching the other homes to the north of the page. Additionally, as part of the addition and development in the rear of the site were maintaining the 20 foot step back on the north side of the property with our butter to maintain existing tree scheme and and landscape along that property line and minimize the massing from a residential neighbors. In addition to the existing condition survey by a survey or we also have landscape architect that went out to the site and did a survey of existing trees and existing plantings and we have a comprehensive landscape plant not only to maintain the landscaping along commonwealth avenue but also to maintain the mature trees in the non-developed area on the site as well as landscaping the new vehicular and pedestrian access off of commonwealth avenue to the south. If you go to skip the next two slides of the third slide please. Yes, thank you. Just to show the full print of the connection, show that set back along the north side of the page here. A single story connector to connect to the five story rear addition with the front home and that was to minimize the height of the connection and minimize the view of the connection piece from the street. So while your on commonwealth have the idea is to have both of the buildings seem like they're separate structures but be connected inside to provide accessible access to both buildings. Next slide please. These are just a series of plans but you can see how in the rear of the site in the parking plan we have 17 parking spaces utilizing a semi automated parking system. There's an elevator in both the existing home as well as the rear addition to provide fully accessible access as well as a dedicated bike room in the rear addition. Next slide please. You can go to the next slide. Yes and this is just a zoom in of the parking. Something on this slide is the importance of providing both accessible and dedicated pedestrian access and vehicular access off of commonwealth Ave. As Jeff had mentioned this is a challenging site due to the grade change from com to the first floor of the existing structure which is about 13 feet and then there's an additional grade change to the center of the site of about another 10-15 feet so we have about 25 feet grade change from commonwealth Ave to the center of the site. So to provide accessible access off of the street we're providing a slow walkway to the existing home as well as a elevator and stair access up to the residential levels and then also a paved permeable paved access to the rear building and the parking. That is dedicated and separate from the vehicular access based on off of the existing curb cut. In addition to the vehicular access we're working with our butter to the south of the page the commercial building on the corner of commonwealth Ave and Chiswick Road to rework our parking entry to be respected to their business use as well as the existing retaining wall on our property line. Next slide please. This is just showing the main entry of off of commonwealth Ave to the existing home on this floor we're providing a amenity space, a secondary access point to maintain the historic front door access to the building and then in the rear of the dedicated bike room. Next slide please. And this is just a slide showing an actor piece a single story with three units off of it as well as a slope mitigating the slope of the site within the corridor connecting the two buildings. Next slide please. Standard residential floor this is above the roof of both the connector piece and the existing home. Next slide. Again residential floor, fourth floor mixture of studios one and two bedroom units. And then lastly, next slide is the fifth floor where we'll be pulling back from comf providing a amenity room and hand com an amenity deck on the roof building facing commonwealth Ave. Next slide. In terms of the elevations, Jeff presented the landscape of the rendered elevation prior showing the connector space, the minimizing of the height of the connector as well as the step back from comf. Next slide please. And then just the front elevation, you can really see the changing grade from commonwealth Ave on the upper elevation to the existing home and then subsequently to the rear building. And then I believe that is the last slide. Thank you for your time today. Thank you. Thank you. Just a couple of things that came up in written comment that I observed that you could speak to landscaping and trees, what's existing, what are you proposing as well as some no ways from the deck. Obviously it's a large common roof deck that can accommodate a lot of people. How would you adjust those items? So in terms of the landscape, we have engaged the landscape architect. As I mentioned, we have taken a comprehensive survey of the existing plantings on site to maintain the mature trees on the site. We've also, through our landscape architect, have identified numerous invasive species on the site because over time, the site has been overgrown and not well maintained. So as part of the project, we'll be removing the invasive species that are existing on the site and replanting trees that are common to the area. And that goes in hand in hand with our comprehensive landscape plan that we have not only for the landscape along commonwealth Ave, but also on both the vehicular access to the south of this page as well as the mid-20-foot setback that we're maintaining along the north side of the page. And then in terms of the common roof deck and the noise, we try to, with the massing of the building, block it off from our residential butters, utilizing the access from the stair and the elevator as well as we'll be minimizing the occupants on the roof. It will be posted for limited occupancy and then there will be hours based on the building management system to minimize when people can access that deck, working with the building management company. Other questions from the board? ASE Mr. Baltic, welcome to VA. Thank you Madam Chair. Good morning Madam Chair, I'm Mr. Board. My name is Clint Valsich and I'm the project manager of the BPA. This project completed the article later review process, including two BPA sponsored public meetings and was approved for the BPA Board of June 16th, 2022. The project seemed went through great lengths in working with the BPA design staff to appropriately restore and incorporate existing historic building on the parcel. The project will design 18% of its units as affordable, making safety improvements to the new right intersection that's requested by the community and will contribute $30,000 to the Boston Parks and Recreation Department to support a nearby parks and open space. The proponents have also committed to transportation demand management measures including blue light memberships and one month of free MBGA passes for new residents. The BPA staff found that this project is consistent with the city's goals and the project is the full support agency and its board. Thank you. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Hearing none? No, no question. I think it's a pretty modest proposal in respectful. Mr. Trego, I have a question for Mr. Trego. Yes sir. You have seven affordable units that is 80% in ambiance to see that the projects that you are representing are increasing the affordability levels or the number of affordable units. Now the apartment are the units that are for 70% and a hundred percent RMM income. Is there any reason why there are not any units for 50% or 40% RMM income? I think, well as we kind of went through the, that's a great question Mr. Goensi. We just went through this process we were committing to a lot of different areas to mobility and transportation upgrades to blue bike stations. So there were a number of areas that you had to contribute and being well over that 13% being at 18% alone. We felt that was a reasonable ask from the community and we worked that through not only the community members but also council of Raiden to come up with, to come up with this number. Thank you. I appreciate the elsewhere and they were good at the rental for work to ensure that I work for the whole units but I will always pay attention to see who can qualify for those units and most low incomprehensive boss from doing qualified for the annual for the 70% and a minimum income. That is just a comment in general for all the projects that are being presented to the world. Thank you. Thank you. I'm sorry Mr. Roushik, are you speaking again? I don't know my job, but my college is prepared for my end-down. Okay, thank you. Any other questions from the board? Well, what's that now? Can I talk to my guys? Is this money? Yes, good morning Madam Chair. I'm Mr. Board of Frank Mendoza here. Mayor's Office of Nipert Services. Awesome, Brighton Lee A's on. We'd like to defer to the judgment board in this matter but can't testify that the applicant blasts went to the Brighton Austin Group Association on August of 2022. I believe John Lye from the Brighton Austin Improvement Association is on to test the by this morning and there's a little bit of a lot of confusion. I suggest to whether or not there's a final vote at the VAIA and what the outcome of that vote was if any. Again, they sound elected for its judgment board. Thank you. Any other official offices before we get said? I'll look at the monitor. Okay, so down the line, start with the middle. We ask for direct about it to briefly tell us the clearance of the opposition. Please say your name and address for the very good person. I have to move. Sorry, I'll come back to you this. Sounds fun. Thank you. Thank you. Hi, this is Debbie overwork. I own the 1781 Commonwealth app. If you look at the photos on the yellow house, I oppose this project. The severe amount of ledge that will structurally damage my property. The deck is overlooking my property as well as the deck was an add on. It was never brought to Brighton Austin Improvement and it was never approved at Boston. Austin Improvement. The parking is an actual danger and a life-threatening problem right now as existing, especially with the elderly Jewish home that is right behind this. This project, if approved, will negatively impact the quality of life of 1781. Thank you. Great. Good morning. My name is Greg Eumen. I'm in one of 16 Wallingford Road, which is a direct motor of the property. I also oppose this project. I submitted some written comments to the board, which I believe you have. But let me make one comment. One of the members of the board called this a respectful project and respectfully I have to disagree with that. At the Brighton Austin Improvement Association meeting, which I believe was held on September 1, 2022, I stood up and I made my presentation indicating that I opposed the project. I spoke to Getranny for the developer. I'm a lawyer in Boston. I'm easily found. I gave him my business card. I asked that they reach out to me. I asked that they reach out to the other of the developers to discuss this project and they never did. I never got an email and never got a phone call. I think what's happening here is the developer is trying to jam the largest project that possibly can on to this rot. In fact, this outdoor deck, this 49 person deck is an add-on that we did not see before. I just think that this developer doesn't care about the better for the neighborhood. They're trying to put the biggest project they can. I would like to see them come back to the drawing board and actually engage with the butter before the board approves this project. Thank you. So we have four additional raised hands. I'm going to keep going. That's fine. Tom, Tom, is what you looking to give testimony? Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom, Tom There are two other proponents to do a this proponent's Don and continue to engage with the director of the butters. If there are any other minor tweaks the project they could make that might, you know, lessens the impacts on those butters. But we were satisfied of where the project was in the community at the time, but it had to have more questions from the board. I'll make a motion to approve. I assume there'll be ongoing PPT 8 design review. May I have a second? Let's take a look. Okay, Mr. Stimbridge. Yes. Mr. Schaffer. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Betabraza. Yes. Ms. Benado. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Chair Osivo, yes. Motion carries. Thank you, Mr. Schaffer. Thank you. So at this point, jump ahead and discuss it. We'll let you schedule for 1130 and ask if there are any questions. Would you all support the throw at the time? I probably used to want to do the throw. More? Hey, Paul, Williams, is that you want? Look, more money is clear for Western. Are you requesting a referral from the requested referral for 75 Maywood? So you're requesting a referral for a case BOA 1309386 with the address being 75. Correct. Yes. How long do you think you need? You have the time frame in hand to find that you're like that. When is the next hearing? Next, I will be delighted. I do believe that will be sufficient amount of time. Okay. With that, and I have motion. Would you, could you tell us why you need this program? Sorry. Sir, the furl is necessary because I will be asking through BOA after the concern that you brought to the attention. They are requesting I'm taking some sub-divided land from a property that I want directly behind for the added parking space and add to add some things to the application. And so therefore, we're going to have to receive a new update or refusal letter. Any other questions from the board? I'm sure the request requires a few of the data to be tested due date for August. All right. 29 to get staff. I do think you can receive the updated refusal letter, right? Clayton? Yes, I did. Okay, so are we good with the original date you offered? I'll be right. Yes, the live update. Yeah. Okay, with that, may I have a motion? Motion to defer. May I have a second? Second. Second. Thank you, Mr. Stumberidge. Yes. Mr. Schaffer? Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Is that a brothel? Yes. Mr. Pinaro? Yes. Mr. Langham? Yes. Chair also, Mr. Sches, motion carries. Thank you. In a further request for the calls and report to the referrals from the 1130 to be discussed in time for. All right. With that, then go back to the hearings in the month of the month and the clock. Next, we have case of the OA, 1-4-4-8-6-3. The address being 272-276. High Park Avenue. Okay. Is the applicant and-or the representative? Present. Yes, sir. Identify yourself and go ahead and describe your draft. Sure. Thank you, Madam Chair. Members of the board, my name is Kyle Smith. I'm a head of the State Rail Law with the business address of 359 New Grazzy, Boston's back bay. The applicant is proposing to expand a slightly existing footprint of an existing structure, located on the high Park Avenue roughly about three quarters of a mile away from downtown Boston up high Park Avenue in Jamaica Plain, and to expand the existing use of the first floor as a market, which has been incurred use for about 18 to 20 so-or so years by the current owner and the component who was on the call with us as well as his GC, and then to basically build the three stories of residential housing above it with mirrored footprints on floors two, three, and four. One unit facing front-high Park Avenue being a two-bed one-bath of approximately eight hundred square feet, and then the rear units being approximately 130 square feet again two-bed one-bath. We have a slightly unique situation in that we are in a LC sub-district, but we do a but a residential sub-district for Jamaica Plain, and hence we are then imparted with the setback requirements. Our abut or to our immediate right is a four-story residential structure. We have a four-story residential structure immediately across the street from us as well, so we're proposing kind of already existing presence in the community in the fabric of the community. We have a proposed extension of a zero setback for both left and front and rear of the structure and what you're looking at is some of the pre-existing structures in the community near us as existence for what presently is in place. I think with five-street off-park off-street parking spaces, there is currently off-street parking, it's not really memorialized on the site plan, so now we're looking to merely memorialize it, so there's a proposal for five off-street parking spaces for proposed six residential units. And again, we lie on high Park Avenue, there was a bus stop in our immediate vicinity, several bus lines which I use to travel personally, given my location, my former residence, and a very close proximity to the Forest Hills Transition. Any questions? Yep, sorry. I wouldn't get there. And the slide up is the existing footprint. You can see the structure tour immediate right has a slightly expanded and deeper footprint. The structure tour right has a deeper than footprint we're looking to bring our footprint into line with the structure tour left. And I can walk you through any part of these plans if you would like, if you care for it. Are there any questions on the plans? No questions, Chair. Okay. Is Bartomeco still present? Did you make a comment? Yes, I'm Madam Chair, members of the Board of Laws and ECO twins, the Transportation Department. I'd like to recommend the number of spaces we reduced from five to four spaces in order to improve the availability, because the way the design is right now would be kind of difficult for maneuverability for five spaces. So I'd like to request that this number of spaces would be reduced from five to four. Thank you. Thank you. Any public may we get public testimony, please? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the Board of the Palmer and ECO members of the Mayors Office of the Neighborhood Services. This time, our office looks deferred to the judgment of this board. Some background information, the community process, our office hosts in the butter's feeding on April 4th. The applicant that went on to be with the JPMC Zoning Committee and we're aware that they were approved by the Zoning Committee. We're unaware of any concerns at this time. That will defer to the Board. Thank you. Thank you. Any other raised hands? I have no raised hands, Madam Chair. Thank you, Mr. Smith. Any issues with that parking recommendation? We did not in the community process hearing complaints about the lack of parking. So I don't think that it would be problematic. The depth of spaces really won't change. So I would say for five spaces for six units, for family design units, it's probably ideal. But if the approval of the board is contingent upon having the buying of the BPDA and its recommendation, then I think that would be acceptable to the opponent, but I don't think it is ideal given intended use. Thank you. Madam Chair, can I ask one follow-up question? Yes, please. Is the current building, is it having the Delhi market, like the, or is it not the Green Landrum Act? It's next to the Green Landrum Act, correct? Yes, the Landrum Act is to our immediate right. We are housing the market and the name of the market is existing as what is on your plans before. Right. Are you going to find a way to keep the existing tenant? Yes, ma'am. Why was actually onsite today at a project? I help the client obtain the only relief for which the GC of this project is a GC of that project. They've only had about 10 businesses at downtime throughout that entire construction process. So it's my understanding that we don't tend to displace that tenant. It's a great operation for a period of time. Right, because it's a minority-owned businesses, that kind of block. So thanks for letting us know that they won't be displaced. Importantly, the proponent is the owner operator of that market. Oh, okay. Great. Thank you. Great. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? With that, I have a motion. Madam Chair, I'd like to put forward a motion of approval with the PTA design review, paid special attention to the quality of the material and the top floor passing. I have a second. Oh, I'm sorry. And with a provisor of three parking spaces to allow from the maneuverability. I think it was five floor. Four spaces. Thank you. You have a second. Thank you. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Shraper. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Inspector Rossi. Yes. Mr. Conato. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Chair also votes. Yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Madam Chair, just to clarify, the BPD and design review would encompass the material concern correct. So our provider's design review and then the reduction of parking. Correct. Correct. But I'm asking for a special attention for the quality of materials. Yes. And the fourth floor passing. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Next, we have case VOA 147 2384. The address of 330 C Street, which is also an article 80 project. Applicant and other representatives. Madam Chair, I need to refuse myself on this. Thank you. Yes. George Marancy. I am here for 3rd C Street. We take this out of the water or is it finished? Quirk going first. Yeah. Thank you. Revenge. Quirk. It's not a word. It deferred. Okay. I'm sorry. I like sorry. I know this great. Thank you. Yes. Good morning, Madam Chair. Members, who's the board. My name is George Marancy. I represent rise together in city real deep components of this project. The proposed project consists of a new 74 key hotel on a site and rising approximately 8,202 square feet at the intersection of Cypress Street and C Street in Tau Boston. The site is currently occupied by a vacant single story block of gold English while the layout is a repair garage. This is an article 80 small project which was approved by the VPDA on April 13th of this year after a 13 month public review process. Architectural services are being provided by Group 1 partners and the Harry Wheeler from Group 1 also joins us this morning when I will be returning the presentation over Harry very shortly. 3rd C Street is located in the industrial residential transition area in South Boston. The site bridges the residential sun, say, Vincent neighborhood with the commercial area on the south west to the edge of the Boston convention and exhibition center. This is the intersection as I said it's E Street which is running left to right in the rendering that's on the screen now and Cypress Street which is the street that is running more or less north to south on that current slide. The use is in the area I'm sorry, the use is in the area since there's from literally an industrial residential transition zone. Harry Wheeler will go through the plan to first speak about the request of zoning relief before we go through the slide terrible through a much better job of that than I would. Both the hotel and the rest are on our additional uses within the relevant first street industrial first street local industrial zoning sub district. These uses are appropriate to the location owing to its proximity both the convention center and the C-Quad district which drive the need for additional hotel space including on premises dining as the social we have added with the appropriate facilities provided for the operation of the uses with no adverse effect hazards for nuisances close to the neighborhood. Variances required for insufficient side and rate are setback distances but these setbacks are reasonable and light of the closed use surrounding current and future uses in the character of the immediately surrounding the area. Similarly the post height of the building at six stories and just under 67 feet requires relief but is not inconsistent with projected heights in the district including when the approved lifestyle building located which will be located directly adjacent to two west first street height of which is being matched but not exceeded on this parcel. Finally relief is required for issued off-street parking and loading. The operating model of this hotel is to attract guests to when I'll be bringing a car as part of the visit and the BPDA has judged that post curbside loading area is adequate for a small hotel of this size where for example livens will be cleaned on site rather than by an outside service would pick up and deliver vehicles. The site is within 10 minutes driving time by a reliver taxi from Volklog and at 4th end south station. Additionally my clients will be providing valet services for guests who do bring a car with a local valet service that currently operates several parking garages in the area including the channel center garage which has confirmed excessive capacity particularly in the overnight hours. That is a summary of the Sony relief being requested before I turn it over to Harry Wheeler to present the architectural drawings. I'm also pleased to know that this will be a 100 percent union built as union staffed hotel unless there are any questions on any zoning items that just went over I've both turned the presentation over to Harry Wheeler of Part 1. Thank you. Any questions on the on the Sony relief? Okay. It's here from your architect. Yeah, I'm very curious. How are you? I'm very dear. Hi, thanks Madam Chair, members of the board. Harry Wheeler, Principal of Group 1 Partners. Quickly run through the design presentation and plans that are represented with George to subscribe from zoning. On this slide here you get to see the rendering which is an aerial aerial view of the proposed hotel which is facing the C street side and the adjacent side faces Cypher Street. On the bottom right you'll see an opening or an open air site which is a piece of city-owned land between our project in Cypher Street which is intended for public improvements by path sidewalks etc. So we are able to work with this site as a corner site so as you'll see we have some openings and fenestrations turning the corner as we are able to access and show our building opening to that side parcel. In this slide just clearly depicts as George mentioned a height just below 70 feet. So I'm 60-70 feet which matches the adjacent light science parcel. The main facade which is the breakfast out steps down below that somewhat and the height that matches the adjacent parcel is our mechanical screen which is set back from the C street side. In addition you can see a small roof terrace on the corner of C street Cypher Street which is for guests only. This is a 400 square feet step out terrace. This is not a public roof deck of any way. It's just a courtesy of the hotel guests to be able to get outside from the rooftop and look over towards the convention center. This rendering also shows on the ground level our blue bike zone and you can clearly see the property line which our building is set back in aligns with the approved life science building to our to the left and also has a further set back at the ground floor of an additional five more feet to provide an enhanced pedestrian rail. Next slide please we'll go through the details of those slides. We can probably scroll through these pretty quickly. This is the site itself which is that rectangle that's shown. The hatched area is the existing industrial use that's on the site. Next slide. This is our site with the building footprint. Layed on it you can see we're set back from the property line on C street and we are set back from our adjacent property line on the western edge which is that life science building. This will be an access point on the ground floor for us to get to our loading deliveries and also our transformer which will be set back further off the site. Next slide please. We do have a basement level at the basement level. How is it done? Critical equipment such as employee lounge bike storage hotel storage restaurant storage and our in-house laundry. Next slide. The ground floor used has our hotel lobby right off of C street. You can also see here is George mentioned the short-term loading on loading zone which will be for the three vehicles for drop off and pick up as well as this will be our loading zone for deliveries which will then be taken down that left handed edge down to our trash and receiving zone on the left hand side or west end edge of the site. We have a small lobby relatively modest 2,000 square foot restaurant cafe which will also have access on C street and have fenestration that looks out towards Cipher Street over the future street improvements. Next slide. You can even go to the next one after this. This is just a typical floor plan showing the hotel. We have 72 hotel rooms facing C street in Cipher Street. We are pulling our guest from the back from Cipher Street giving a little bit of a green space and again tearing down towards the future improvements on Cipher Street. We have in the rest is our core for our elevators and stairwells. Next slide please. This is the typical floor so you can just keep going. I think the next slides will be the elevations. A roof plan. This is we'll have everything mechanically screened. So the next slide. And here we have our front elevations on the left hand side of C street on the right hand side of Cipher Street. We have a mixture of glass very transparent on the pedestrian realm. A brick facade grouping the building into two floors at a time to bring the scale of the overall building down. The materiality is brick on the C street and the brick turns the corner on the Cipher Street and then where the building is recessed back we have a nice texture of a metal shingle style. So as metal shingles we provide some texture and again that feeling of self-broughts and traditional siding material using more of a modern material and then on the ground floor restaurant that does come up to our crop line we are utilizing the mace made facade along that Cipher Street edge where the restaurant is. Next slide which will be our other two adjacent property elevations which have party wall facades. So these will be on the left hand side and northwest elevation will be a budding an existing structure and on the right hand side the southwest facade this will be a budding the future lab building a life science building that was proposed and here you can see our colony of columns which will house our access back to our loading lobby and receiving area. Next slide I think that might be the end of our oh we have a building section showing the height again matching our adjacent property at 60 that just under 67 feet 66 foot 8 actually and we do showing the partial waste so happy to answer any questions about the project and George is still on board to answer any questions about the zoning relief so thank you for your time. Thank you. Is someone from BPD 8 on? Yes ma'am I am. I am the BPD at Project Manager for the project and I can part that I went through the Earth Lady process since I moved to April. Okay can any any feedback on community process? We had three community meetings two last year I believe one in April and November and one in March before I ordered approval and working with the community and elected officials I think the project was well received by that. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Yes we do. My question would be I know it's a many different way around it but which time I worked with the construction and the second question was I think I heard about sure would rise especially about juicie proplow it. George you want to take that? George on mute. Sorry about that George Marancy. Yes rise with the the GC for the project that they are in conjunction with city realty the developers of the project they would be the builders in terms of construction timeline I believe that what we're looking at is a hopefully first quarter or maybe a fourth quarter 2024 stars and then maybe just under two years I think for construction cycle the time was submitted the small part of review application we were a bit ambitious about the schedule and we were hoping for a fourth quarter 2022 star so it looks like that maybe pushed off by about a year and then again looking at maybe seven eight quarters terms of construction cycle. Is that a gesture of question Mr. Shepherd? Yes thank you. Thank you and I think I read a comment about trees and landscaping can you speak to that as he like two trees up on top at any of those huge levels. Sure it's uh we're up in control with the mind going down to the first the ground floor first floor plan I think it's backing the other direction. Yes right here so we are improving the sidewalk in front of our yeah we are improving the sidewalk in front of our site by the width of our site we are bumping out the sidewalk to the bottom right of our site which be the south south west east corner of our site which we will provide the blue bike location we're providing two new street trees which would be in the sidewalk in that planting zone and allowing for all of the enough space for pedestrian improvement the landscape plans were reviewed during our article eighty plus small project view process and presented to the community and I believe while we see with what with what is available for site for us to actually include. Thank you other questions from the board. Hearing none I'll open up to public testimony. Good afternoon Madam Chair members of the board I'm Anna Light with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services 330 C Street was a BPA project in although robust community process. Oh and as is unaware of any concerns at this time and we'd like to defer judgment to the board thank you so much. Thank you. We left the room. Madam Chair members of the board Anna Candelon from Council President Flink's Office the councilor would like to go on recurring support. Mr. Parliament received community feedback as several meetings and work with neighbors to improve their proposal in terms of the growth plan and other issues. This proposal will create both construction and hotel jobs and will help bring economic activity to the area. Your lawyer, President has half respectfully requested that the city of Boston Transportation Department and businesses in the area were to ensure that neighbors are protected from quality of life issues and that this is trash of C Street be made to be made to weigh traffic between Cypher and first street. However, that C Street remains one way as it is now from West Broadway to first street. This change will address concerns from the neighbors and see we group a lot of traffic calling through the neighborhood as C Street which will force cars to turn right or left on first street when coming from Cypher Street. The development team has expressed support for this proposal as several neighborhood meetings. Council President Flink who's respectfully request that the team continue to work with the neighbors and quality of life issues and encouraging parking our neighboring parking lots and that VTV will work with neighbors on President Parking and Force and thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the Board, Paul Sullivan, the City Council of Large Microweaflare, echoing the sentence of Council President Flink's office, Council President Renkin, and support. Thank you. Any other rain stands? Madam Chair, I have a minor. You've been admitted. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the Board, minor, percent of the carpenters union is with pleasure and we have we're going to record on behalf of all our robust presidents and support of this project. Thank you. It's an honor to get the channel raised against that chair. Thank you. Would the applicant just like to respond to the feedback from the Councilor from the office? Yes. Thank you, Madam Chair. This is George Morancy. The primary focus of Council of Planned Hon. and Cultural Test of Money, I think was that the three C and Cypress Street intersection that was a major part of our conversation during the long community review process. I think we have hopefully cautious support from the BPA. I can't speak for BPD to perhaps change the the the operational features of C Street. It is as and is currently a one way. I'm going down C Street from Broadway to a Cypress Street so that vehicles on Cypress Street wanted to access the hotel. I currently couldn't take that turn of the C Street. We intend we being the head of all the team to petition the city. Hopefully we would support the elected officials to change C Street so that it becomes two ways street at least between Cypress Street and West first street of much the way that the E Street is so that vehicles on Cypress Street don't have the traverse in just all parts of the turn around and get back to the hotel. They could access it directly from C Street. I'm sorry from Cypress Street and from the Hallburg. Any other questions from the board? Hearing none may I have a motion? Madam Chair, before our emotion of approval with Provisas noted at the BPD or Memorandum. May I have a second? Right. Take a look. Mr. Stambridge. Yes. Mr. Schupper. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Pataprasa. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Thank you very much. Thank you. Next we have Case B-O-A. 146-1403. The address of 9 Russell Street is the applicant's and or the representative president. Hello Madam Chair and members of the board. My name is Kevin Stumman of Calsa Design Incorporated. Business address of 17 I've only street in Somerville. I'm just waiting for our attorney to hop on board Joe Hanley. Yes. He looks like he's asking to be a pianist. Yes, he's on. There we go. Here we are. Thank you Madam Chair. Sorry for that delay. I'm for the record attorney Joe Hanley, which earned a quality of Miller 28 State Street in Boston. Here to take you through the initial part of this presentation. And then have Evan take you through the plans. We are representing the owner and proponent 9 Russell Street LLC. The team on the next slide, Elon Sassoon, who was the principal introduced you to myself. And Evan Stumman, who is a partner with KDI, architects who has worked on the plans for the project. Next slide, please. So 9 Russell Street is a lot of approximately 3523 square feet. It is on the block between Sullivan and Pearl Street, just south of Bunker Hill Street in Charlestown. It has an existing single family structure that is on it today, which was approved by landmarks for demolition back on October 21st, 2022, finding that it had no historic significance. Next slide, please. So just to take you for a walk around the site, you can see the existing conditions in the bottom center of the white building that you'll see. That's the existing structure that is going to be approved to be removed. And then in the middle, you can see the unique aspects of the property site in the pink hash, also accessed by Aemon Place, which is a alleyway that runs from Sullivan Street. And it's also relevant in the photographs that you can see here, the neighborhoods and what justifies this application. Next slide, please. So what we are proposing is a use compliant to family, to residential home ownership units, with two parking spaces, and approximately 3,625 crost square feet. All of those, as you'll see in the zoning summary, all of those components comply with the allowable use in this 3F zone, as well as the required parking and the FAR. First unit would be 1,700 square feet, three bedrooms, two bathrooms, private outdoor patio, second unit, a little bigger, 1,750 square feet, also three bedrooms, two to half bathrooms, and private outdoor space, again for home ownership. Next slide, please. So this shows you the zoning. What is most important here is what this project complies with, which is virtually everything, again, less than the amount of allowed units to in a 3F zone, FAR compliant, high compliant, compliant with all of the setbacks we do need relief, which is diminimous for 1.5 feet off from the lot whip and from the lot fontage. And the next slide will show you how the refutes of the letter go to the next slide. We put together a lot whip comparison for the block, again, this is the block between you know where nine rustle is, which you'll see obviously in the dark pink hash there. And so what's important here to know to put the relief is we've received a recommendation of approval with design review by the BPDA, but it also said with special attention to retention and replacement of the existing trees and the relationship to existing structures. So the two adjacent structures, the two adjacent structures you'll see on the right and the left also have similar non-conformatives. Again, the requirement for the lot whip and the lot frontage being 25 feet or at 2350 is an existing condition. The adjacent property is 2450, also non-conforming and non-compliant, and the adjacent property and the other side is 2462, again, slightly under what is required. So we would suggest that consistent with the BPDA recommendation and the need for housing and consistent with the purpose of 3F zone. We are in context and consistent with those adjacent conditions. You'll see that that non-conformity is also prevalent at two other lots on the immediate block as well. So it's certainly not a unique condition with respect to a deviation. Next slide, please. So I'd like to hand it off now to Evan Stelman to take you through more of the details on the project itself. Evan? Thanks, too. So this is our proposed site plan. On this plan, Russell Street is at the bottom and Avon Place, which is a private way, is up close to the top. As you can see, we have a pretty expansive site. It extends to the back from Russell Street to Avon Place, and then it extends to the left behind via adjacent parcels on Russell Street. So at the narrowest point, Avon Place is 23.5 feet. At the widest point, Avon Place is 64.19 feet. And we are proposing a structure highlighted in the gray region that goes back along the right side of the site, and that extends to the left where the site opens up behind those parcels on Russell Street. Next slide, please. So this is Avon Place. So this is our proposed ground floor plan. It is at grade on Russell Street. So at the bottom of the page, we have a garage entry for two parking spaces, one per unit, and we also have the entry for the residents to enter and go up to the inmates. From the garage, each unit has an entry access point, and an outdoor space at grade on the left side and at the rear. Next slide, please. This is just walking you through the upper floors of the units on this level. Unit 1 has two bedrooms, a kitchen and living space. Unit 2 has a kitchen and some outdoor space. And I just like to highlight that the two trees along Avon Place are existing to remain. Those are kind of sacred to the butters, and they're important for the privacy of both the butters and us. Next slide, please. And then this is just the third floor in the roof plan. Again, unit 2 has three bedrooms, two bathrooms, and a deck on this level. Unit 1 has a master bedroom on this level. Next slide, please. So moving on to the exterior of the structure, we wanted to design something that really fit in with the adjacent structures. So to the left of us, we have a typical traditional three-story quarrels town building, which is what we wanted to emulate here. You see the top right in here. The top right elevation is just a typical three-tiger, two over one windows, a nice corner, a nice garage, and a ninth-rate point on this facade. Next slide, please. This upper elevation is the right side when you're facing from Russell Street. You can see the three stories at the front on Russell Street starts to read as two stories when you get closer to Avon Place. A traditional style building, clad with cementitious cladding, and the ground floor would be clad with a PVC board and baton around the garage. The bottom elevation shows the left side, kind of in the L of the site. Again, upper two floors clad with cementitious cladding in the ground floor clad with PVC board and baton. Next slide, please. And then this is the elevation from Avon Place. Most of the structures on Avon Place are one and half stories because of the great change. This goes read as a two-story structure on Avon Place. And it's just the traditional cementitious cladding here. Next slide, please. And these are just some 3D perspective views. The top left perspective shows the perspective from Russell Street and then the bottom two perspectives show what it would look like from Avon Place. And I think at this point, we don't have anything else to add. We don't have enough to question from the board. Thank you, Matt. I have a question regarding Avon Place. Is that wide enough? That's, I imagine, that's the Kineesment, correct? Yeah, it's a private way. It's not wide enough for vehicles. It's just a pedestrian way. So my concern is if there's ever a fire behind the unit one and a fire vehicle cannot access Avon Place, how would we, how would they take the fire out? So there's no vehicle access for fire environment, but there's pedestrian access so they can come up Avon Place with those as a thing. Yeah, and if I made to one of the virtues of it as being developed here, is the existing structure was not conforming with respect to the rear setback. It's basically further back what we're doing out of respecting the zone and code of the 20-foot rear yard setback is alleviating that sort of condition back there that also provides for more circulation for later holds access to get get in there again not being it's not open to vehicular travel of the impact as far less now as a result. Right, but in your in the original proposal, there is there's not a building at the rear of an existing building. The front was open on Russell Street. Correct and so there's a lot of much more open air. Well, so Russell Street obviously being a public way that and the reason, you know, complying with the front yard setback of the new condition as well, that's where that wants to be with respect to fire safety, right? Where does the back doesn't go as far back and also that's an area where you don't have vehicular access for latter. So the latter would pull up, you know, onto the public way where the bulk of the building is, but then it would also have access by foot through the back to less of a rear yard intrusion, I guess. So overall, this is an improved condition with respect to fire safety and compliance with the zoning code. A lot front-edge deviation by foot and a half as, you know, really no relationship to fire safety whatsoever. As we're complying with both the side yards actually I'm sorry we're exceeding the side yards setback requirements on both sides under the zoning code. So that's, you know, further relief. Madam Chief, do we know what the VPA recommended? The Mr. Hinton still on? Yes, Madam Chair, we requested a through a little bit of design review. We sorry, I don't have my glasses on. We wanted to retain the replacing existing treats. So that was our recommendation, but we're on record for approval with design review. Okay, thank you. And I think Bob, do you know how I raised? Yes, Madam Chair, Bob, the Medical Placid Transportation Department. The only thing is the rear of the sidewalk is going to basically accept access and egress to the garage site. And since it has to do with the prices of disabilities, our electric requests that an audio and visual alarm be placed at the garage door because okay, there was a stepping on somebody because the rear of the sidewalk is going to be right at the entrance of the garage and they're going to have to back out. But there has to be something that's going to want pedestrians that there is an oncoming vehicle. And this is a common practice when you have a garage door right at the rear of the sidewalk. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Kimiko. That's certainly acceptable to us and I appreciate your input. The other question to have is the safe plant, the safe plant has all of this luscious, green uh, diagrammed and rear. But in reality, my understanding is that there's patio, there's in there's impervious surface covering that. Can you please clarify? Yeah, but you want to handle that. Can you go into the slope? So the first floor plan shows actual patios, but the green site line, yep, there's a discrepancy between the drawing right before this and this drawing. So which one is the most accurate one? The strongest, the most accurate one. So so basically, your open space has been reduced to potentially 20% percent of the site. We're in your previous iteration. You had a nice kind of green open area. We're committed to landscaping the the unit patio areas as well. Okay, great, thank you. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Well, can you just just clarify this notion of replacing or retaining existing trees and just unclear about that? So, was this plan the uh, the two circles, of course, the top at a month-place are existing trees? We don't and I'm not really using these trees. Okay, and you've had a landscaper look at the the feasibility of retaining them with the construction. Not at this point, but we will prior to construction. Thank you. Great. Other questions from the board? Hearing none, could I have public testimony please? Yes, Madam Chair, and members of the board, would Sean Reen with them his office and neighborhood services. And a button meeting was held at the nine Russell Street on May 10th. It was well attended and the applicants were able to answer all the residents' questions with the majority of the residents' concerns centered around the size and scope of the project. Since then, this office has received no letters of support in three letters in opposition, including one from the Charlestown Preservation Society in which they said the proposed building would be too close to surrounding buildings. With that, we will defer judgment to the point. Thank you. Good afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the board. Sebastian Parf from Consort of the Colledis Office. Based on the amount of opposition calls, emails, and letters that we have received in our office, the Council will let to propose this project. Thank you. Madam Chair, I have three based hands. Okay, please. Ryan, you've been unmuted if you can stay any managers for the work at please. Thank you. Sorry. Ryan, the Sutton, five Russell Street in Charlestown, Mass, I'm a director of butter. My family, I would like to oppose it. We had some concerns coming in, but even as we heard today, more concerns have been raised, specifically around fire safety and the garage door. We're currently, it doesn't require any kind of alarm visual or audio because the setback and with the development wanting to move it now, the neighbors would have to be e-commendants who are have to hear every time the new, the residents back out of the space. Further on the parking, they wouldn't be enlarging the curbside. I think we'll have to hear. So I still have to hear me now. Yes. Sorry. Further on the curbscube, so in the large parking, it would take one splice face away on either side, reduced parking on the street by two. And it should be noted the buildings that were previously on Avalon Place both burned down that of fire years ago, which is how the previous owner acquired the property, so the fire concerns of reducing the setback next to buildings on Avalon Place, you know, Russell Street's of absolute concern as well. Thank you. Francis. Francis, are there the raised hands? Are they going to do these Francis too? Okay. Well, Francis, I have a very positive view on this. Are we able to, oh, wait for more, can we do that? I should be open. Okay. Is that all? Yes, I'm here. Are you here in St. Kibabat, man, Russell? Yes. Yes. So I live at six a.m. I'm a director of the property. I did submit a letter in opposition to the project, but I just wanted to literally the size of the property is much larger than almost all the other properties that it surrounds. It's an incredibly dense neighborhood with the overhead wires for the electrical. There is a huge fire risk. As Ryan mentioned, truth, there are actually three properties on Avalon Place that have burned down. It's four, five, and seven. So I just wanted to reiterate that the parcel that they are proposing, the property is very large. They do have concerns for the structural integrity of my home with the building. And would prefer something on this smaller scale that's more in line with the neighborhood, both for a fair prevention. And because the property is so dense, we have so little spaces that is. Thank you. Hi, Frank. Can you tell me, Lisa? Elba? Yes. Can you hear me? This is Lisa Talbot, three Avalon Place in Charlestown. Can you hear me? Yes. Oh, hi. So I am also a direct butter. My concerns are really around the structural integrity of Avalon Place. We are built on a hill. We also are all pretty much wood-framed structures here. So I'm very concerned about the structural integrity of our properties. And then the other thing that I just want clarification on, Evan had mentioned the trees that will stay. I guess I'm just asking about the 100-year-old pine tree that's also on that property. And if that won't be staying, if this goes through, that's all I have. Thank you. Thank you. Have there any other rain stands? There are no other rain stands, but I'm sure I see that this is changing. Could we, could the applicant answer the last question about the tree and then anything else that was raised? Yes. So Evan, why don't you handle the words reference to a pine tree, I believe. And then also if you can speak to, there seems to be a lot of discussion on the fire safety, of course. This new structure will, it will be in accordance with new building and fire cut regulations. But if you could speak to that too. Okay. Yeah, I believe the 100-year-old pine tree is one of the trees along Evan place that will be retained. We are proposing to remove a right maple that's further in on the side. So that's not one of the trees that's going to be removed. We have to intend on constructing this building to the current building codes. I'm not sure if the applicant's committed to specifying it at this point, but that's a discussion that we can have. Yeah, and if that's something that the board, these are also things with respect to the trees. We take the BPPA recommendation approval very seriously. And that's why we've been tormented protecting the trees that we can, but we're happy to work through that. Through the design process, just briefly though, I would like to clarify. So respectfully, you know, the folks that we heard from on Haven and in the neighborhood talks about sides and setback, which have nothing to do with this case. We are not reducing the setbacks in any way. In fact, we are complying, if not exceeding with many of them, and then with respect to the sides. So the underlying zoning allows for an AAR of 2.0, and this is right on page 6. The proposed is 1.02. So it's actually half of what is allowed by law. So it's not correct to suggest that it's oversized. The other important thing to recognize here is that with respect to AEMON, in place, the existing structure is 3.2 feet off the rear law line. This new building will be 20 feet off the rear law line. Again, an improved condition for folks off AEMON, and the other thing that I will say, this is a three-family zoning district by law, and we are proposing two units. So the size and the setbacks, respectfully, it's not an issue. In fact, it's an improvement of the circumstances. What is an issue is the lot with, that's merely 1.5 feet off, at the lot frontage, which is a consistent condition all along the street, and it's something that we have dealt with appropriately by exceeding those side-yard setbacks by meeting the high and also by a modest undersized AEMON. Thank you. Francis, did you want to go back to one or two raised hands? If there's any new information people are adding, we need to worry about a lot of detail on opposition. Thank you, Madam. That's right. Becky, you've been unmuted if you can state your name and address for the market, please. My name is Roberta Freeman. I live at AEMON, in place. I am the immediate abouter to this property. I won't repeat what everybody else said. My concern was the stain, but there wasn't Geo Report done. And my concern is the integrity to my property. I've been in it for 40 years. There was a lot of recommendations. I sent the Geo Report in with my opposition. And I would like the zone forward to consider the fact that they should do these recommendations before they do anything, because the property is around the 150 years old. Additionally, I'm putting on those two lots of them, we have over 100 years. So I'm sure the soil needs to be checked, because the vibration is going to affect all the abouters, because we are on a hill. So if they could just take that into consideration on making the air, this vision on this property, I would appreciate it. Thank you. Thank you. You want to take one more? Heidi, did you want... Sorry, how do you've been unmuted if you can state your name and address for the market, please? I'm Heidi. I have already spoken. Thank you. Thank you. Something more additional has come, Chair. Great. Any other questions from the board? May I have a motion? Madam Chair, I'm going to put this motion forward. I'm going to give in that we heard a lot of opposition, community opposition, and the concern regarding fire. I did hear in terms of kind of exceeding the side yard, but typically in a lot, when you set up the front and yard, very weird setback, in this case, the rear setback typically was 20 feet in a given kind of permittative condition. This is a very odd site, which is almost an L, but the applicant applied the side yard because that is the correct way of re-nezzoning. But the intention was to allow enough buffer and rear onto the property. And so with that, I'm going to put a motion forward of denoting without prejudice. Can we have a second? Second. This is time for a trade. This is through your shepherd. No. Mr. Valencia. No. This is Benavaraza. Yes. This is Panado. Yes. Mr. Langham. No. Here also votes no. The motion does not, or does the motion does carry? No, the motion does not carry. Sorry. Sorry. Everyone, you didn't have five. Did I have five? Did I have four? Well, the motion didn't, but did you carry? How do you have five now? There's a lot of them. The motion does not carry. Okay. So may I have another motion? Through the chair, I would like to make a motion for who will be could be desired with you because basically I have built up things very wide. You know, I've done hand-led, I've done very well, and I've done well to make the motion for you. Designing. May I have a second? Pickled. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Shepherd. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Valencia. No. This is Benado. Yes. Mr. Langham. No. The chair votes, yes, the motion carries. And a cute Madam Chairwoman for. Okay. I know we have one more case, but I think we need a break. So a holiday is two days. Yes. But let's take a, let's take a 15 minute break. Okay. Recording stopped.