 you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you Mr. Schupper Mr. Valencia Chair Osalos, yes motion carries. Thank you. Thank you very much. The next extension is BOA-110-2209 for 91-105 Fairmount Ave. The applicant is John Fogini. Is Mr. Fogini here? Yes. Good morning, honestly, well, Attorney John Fogini. Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the Board, Attorney John Fogini. Would the business address attend Fog's road in range? Good morning. Good morning. Can you explain the reason for the extension? Sure. This extension is really coming as a result of financing delays. Initially, this project was an article 80 that was approved for rental housing due to the recession and where the interest rates are now. It doesn't pass out as that. So it looks like we may have to go back to the PDA, which is not a bad thing, but homeownership rather than apartments. Because it just ends up that way. So due to that fact, we're requesting one year extension. Great. Thank you. May I have a motion? I make the most of the grant extension for one year. For one year, I'm sorry, for one year. OK. May I have a second? Second. Thank you. This by Baraza? Yes. Mr. Shepard? Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Ms. Wewell? Yes. Mr. Langham? Yes. Thank you. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Excellent. Thank you. Chair votes. Yes. Motion carries. Thank you, everybody. Thank you. No. Now we have BLA-979-536-346-348 West Broadway. Applicant is George Marancy. Is Mr. Marancy here? Yes, I am. Thank you, Mr. Rossi. Can you lock us through the extension? Certainly. Thank you, Madam Chair. Members of the Board. My name is George Marancy. I'm an attorney with the Business Badgers 350 West Broadway in Stal Boston. This is a first extension request. This matter, which is an appeal associated with the new mixed use building, to contain one commercial unit and three dwelling units, was approved by the board of September 10, 2019, going to the tolling period, which ran contingent with the governor's executive order. Number 42, the actual date of expiration of this decision has extended February 6, 2020 trade. By client, because this would require knocking down an existing building with both the commercial and residential tenants, did not want to expel anybody from the property before storing the COVID pandemic, hence the delaying getting started. That was intended to start the project in this calendar year. However, therefore, we request a one-year extension to allow for the project to commence this year. Great. One year from February 6th. That would be ideal, yes. OK. May I have a motion? Motion to grant the extension for February 6, 2023. Until the 2020-2014. Yes. Great. Thank you. Do I have a second? Thank you. Excellent. Mr. Berraza. Yes. Mr. Shupper. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Wu-Wuang. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Chair also votes, yes, motion carries. Thank you. Thank you. Now we have B-O-A-833835 for six general William H. Divine Way. The applicant is Patrick Mahoney. We do have some information on this one. The board has granted three extensions of this relief with the most recent expiring March 1, 2023. This is the applicant's fourth request for a one-year extension. But we do have a recommendation that the board grants an appropriate. May I hear from the applicant? Morning, Madam Chair. I'm just the board. My name is Attorney Patrick Mahoney. I'm representing William Smith as six William Divine Way. We are seeking a one-year extension. The relief expires on March 1, 2023. Currently, the applicant is an owner operator. Applicant operates the audio garage. He's hired Tim Johnson to the architect to take him through and help him with the building process. Mr. Johnson is confirmed to me that all of the items are in to ISD. However, the planning examiner that was working on the projects has recently been promoted with any administration. So a new one will be scheduled, as well as that they're completing the Article 85 demo delay, which is just it's a single-story garage in a residential area. So it's not out of his sort of significance. But it's unlikely that the permit would be issued within the next 30 days. If that reason, we are seeking a one-year extension, although the permit should be issued far before that. OK, great. Yes, because that would be your fourth request. So thank you. May I have a motion? I make a motion to grant the extent of one year. On March 1, 2023. Yes, ma'am. Thank you. May I have a second? Second. Thank you. Ms. Betapuraza. Yes. Mr. Shepard. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Mimou. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you, ma'am. Chair, Mr. Boyne. Have a good day. Next is BLA 450351 at 1181-1183 Bennington Street. The applicants Richard Lins. The board has granted four extensions of this relief with the most recent expiring March 25, 2023. This is now the applicant's fifth request for one year extension. We do have a recommendation that the board grants it if we find appropriate to do so. May I hear from Mr. Lins? Yes. Good morning. Thank you, Ms. B. Well, Madam Chair, and through to the members, Richard Lins, on behalf of the applicant with a business address of 245 Summers Street, East Boston. Madam Chair, by way of very brief history for this project, this was an art committee project crewed by this board and the BPA back in 2016 that will allow for a transit oriented multi-family, 44 unit dwelling to be built upon a site. It will also involve the cleanup of a contaminated site that's been used for many years at, as a art repair facility that's located precisely between both the Suffolk Bounds and Orient Heights T-stations. The reason for the delay and the reason, I said you'd say it's with good cause. After the approvals, but prior our acquisition, this project was subject to a seizure by the Department of Justice for the fire owner. It was, my client actually was required to litigate the seizure in order to acquire the premises. We ultimately prevailed and have fired the title of the premises. However, in addition to this project, the Law of Subvention and Development Agency has also conducted a taking with respect to abortion property that my client must also acquire in connection with this development. My client has completed all the prerequisites in order to acquire the parcel, including the relocation of utilities and a number of items that were handled for the Public Improvement Commission for the site. So we are ready to proceed with respect to the final step in this process, which is to acquire the site from the BPDA and to proceed with construction as soon as practical. So we are requesting a one-year extension to anticipate we should be able to finalize our building plan within that time and proceed with this project. All right, excellent, thank you. May I have a motion? Motion to extend one year until March, mid-2024. March 25th? 20th? It's fine. May I have a second? Second. Thank you. Ms. Badvaraza? Yes. Mr. Schepren. Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Ms. Monroe? Yes. Mr. Langham? Yes. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Great. Chair votes, yes, motion carries. Good luck, Mr. Lins. Thank you very much. Next, we have BLA 1050291 for 32 Orleans Street. The applicant is Richard Lins. The board originally granted this relief on March 10th, 2021. So the relief is valid until March 10th, 2023. This is the applicant's first request for an extension. We have a recommendation to grant it if we find appropriate. Thank you again, Ms. Wewell. Through the chair, Richard Lins, 245 Summars Street, behalf of the applicant. As Ms. Wewell indicated, this is our first request for extension of this project involves the construction of a new section at Multifanley dwelling just outside of Maverick Square. Our client has completed all filings with the special services for the building permit. The only remaining item involves conservation commission because this is located within a flood zone. So we are finalizing the conservation issues. As we speak, we anticipate this should be resolved. Within the next few months, however, we think it's best to ask for one year extension. And respectfully request that. Thank you. May I have a motion? I make a motion to grant the extension for one year. Until March 10th, 2024. Yes, ma'am. Thank you, ma'am. A second. Take the lead. Thank you, Mr. Bedbr- I miss Bedbr- Miss Bedbr- Yes. Mr. Shepard. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Miss Miro. Oh, yes. Mr. Lennon. Yes. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. There are also voice yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Next, we have B.O.A. 1130385, 33 to 35 Maverick Square. The applicant is Richard Lennon. Is Mr. Lennon here? Yes. Thank you. Again, as we well. I'm reading the town chair. Good morning. I'm for the record. Richard Lennon's 245 Summars Street East Boston. We have a petitioner. Madam Chair, is our first request. This involves the renovation of an existing building, mixed use, ground level retail, residential. It actually involved the change in the occupancy to add an additional dwelling unit. The applicant is in the process of finalizing the credits for this. We anticipate to have this completed relatively soon. So requesting a one year extension. Thank you. May I have a motion? Motion to extend relief to February 26, 2004. Thank you, ma'am. The second. Second. Thank you. Miss Petapraza. Yes. Mr. Shepard. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Wewell. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Thank you. Good luck. Next, we have BOA 1085883 197 Chelsea Street with Mr. Lennon. Thank you again for the record, Richard Lennon's 245 Sumner Street. Peace, boss. On behalf of the petitioner, Madam Chair, Mr. Port, this is our first request for respect to 197 Chelsea Street. This involves the complete renovation of an existing exhaust building with an addition. Our client is in the process of finalizing a BQD design review, which is a pervizer of this board. It expects to have that completed within the next three of four months. Our completion of that will hold on to immediately and proceed. Thank you. May I have a motion? Let me go. I'll make a motion to improve the extension for one year. That be right, 826, 2023. Until 2024. Yes, sorry. Thank you, ma'am. A second? Thank you. Thank you. Ms. Bedfraza. Yes. Mr. Shepard. Ms. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Wewell. Yes. Mr. Lennon. Yes. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. All right. Chair votes. Yes, motion carries. Good luck. Thank you very much. Next, we have B-O-A-967-386 for 95-101 Queensbury Street. The applicant is Jessica Camano. Is Ms. Camano here? The lead by someone. Yes. You want to move in here? Yes, one second. Okay, she's been admitted. Thank you. Great. Hello there, Madam Chair, members of the board. Are you able to hear me? I don't see an option to turn on my video. Yes, we can hear you. How big of a panelist Jessica, one second? It'll unmute you for a second, but then you can unmute yourself once you're on panelist. Thanks. Katie, do you want to read the? Yes. Or should I? I was in tolling and the questions. Yes. We have a little bit of information on this one. The board previously determined that the relief is valid until February 6, 2023, including all COVID tolling. However, the board was not made aware of prior litigation in this matter. That litigation was pending for 680 days, so the relief is told for that time period, including litigation tolling this relief remains valid until September 12, 2023. The applicant is now requesting a one-year extension to expire September 12, 2024. Thank you. Jessica? Sure, I mean. Absolutely. Madam board members of the chair, my name is Jessica Kna no. I have a business address of 400 Atlantic Avenue, Boston, Massachusetts. Here in a new explainer request for one-year extension until September 12, 2024. So ask them back on on this project. Proposes a building of approximately 75 residential units, some associated amenities and underbound popping. It was originally approved by the board in conjunction with the companion project that's located right across Kilmarnick Street. For ease of reference, I'll refer to this project as the West site project and that companion project as the East site project. So that East site project is currently under construction and is anticipated to be completed in late summer of 2024. We're here today making this request for an extension because there's a number of relationships between those two projects that makes commencing construction on the West site while the East site is under construction quite difficult. So currently, while the East site is under construction, there is a good amount of construction staging and logistics that are taking place on the West site to allow for the most efficient construction of the East site project. Additionally, there was a not-for-profit tenant that was operating out of the East site project that after the request of the BPDA when going through Article 80, the appellant has re-honed to the West site project while the East site is under construction. The intention is to keep that tenant at the West site project throughout construction of the East site. So it's to minimize any destruction in their operation. And then once the East site project is completed, that tenant will be moved back to the East site project. Finally, the appellant has had some difficulty finalizing design and construction plans for the West site in light of lingering effects of COVID on the real estate industry and most recently, very high construction costs and financing issues with higher interest rates. So in light of all of this, we are requesting today that the Board grant extension of that September 12, 2023, out to September 12, 2024, at which point we think the appellant will be in very good shape to restart a construction on the West site project in light of the East site project being completed, ideally in late summer of 2024. Happy to answer any other questions you've had. And thank you so much for your time. Of course, thank you. May I have a motion? Motion. Motion. May I have a motion to grant the extension for one year, September 2024? Thank you. May I have a second? Sorry. Thank you. Ms. Betapurazo. Yes. Mr. Shepard. No. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. We will. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. But Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you very much. And next we have BOA 1093724 for 85 Regent Street. The applicant is Thomas Miller. Is Mr. Miller here? I am. Good morning, Madam Secretary. Madam Chair, members of the board. Tom Miller for the academic department. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. And thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. So, Tom Miller for the third in the North and North Illinois with the business editor of the 28th State Street in Boston, on behalf of John Cochrane, the homeowner and resident, V8, V8, and Street Street. Can you explain the need for the extension? I can. As you were aware, the board granted the relief for this project This is our first request for an extension from that time period. Since the grant of relief, Mr. Cochran has been working to overcome issues related to the pandemic, both in locating financing and locating a quality contractor to complete the work, which is one of the reasons we are originally here. It's not locating a, not originally employing a reputable contractor. So we're here today to ask for an extension so you can complete the work and finalize the financing. He is close to being able to move forward this project, and because of that we are requesting an extension of the relief for one year. Excellent. Thank you, Mr. Miller. May I have a motion? I'll make a motion to approve for one year until January 29, 2024. Can we give them until the 31st? Oh, sorry. Yes. May I have a second? Second. Thank you, Mr. Berraza. Yes. Mr. Shepard. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Wewalt. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Thank you, Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. So we have two streets again. So BLA-941393, BLA-941394, 25 and 27, Gareth Street. The applicant is Nicholas Zazula. Is Mr. Zazula here? Yes. Good morning, Madam Chair. Ms. Wewalt. Good job on the pronunciation. I'm sure it's not easy. My turn is Zazula, McDermott, Colt, and Miller, 28th State Street in Boston. Here on behalf of Jerry and Francie McGaff, who are the new owners of 27 Gareth Street and Brighton. Can you explain that for the extension? Absolutely, Madam Chair. Yes. So Jerry and Francie, they live at four Gareth Street, so they actually live on the same street as this project. It's a new single family home. They recently purchased the property and the project on the street from the original homeowner who went through the process with the zoning board. So they're requesting a one-year extension of the zoning relief in order to finalize the building permit with ISD to instruct a single family home. This is the first zoning extension request for the project. They do have all other permits and approvals in place. Madam Chair, including BPD, design review, stamped plans as required in this zoning decision. So they're ready and willing and able to perform on the approvals. They just did the extension in order to go ahead and file with ISD. I'm sure you'll maintain 30 days for the building permit. Sorry, Madam Chair. Go ahead. That's okay. Are you looking for a new extension just until October of the year or the one full one year? Until October of 2023 would be more than an off-limbing Mr. McGath, I think, is ready to go down as soon as possible to file for the building permit. So you should not need a longer than that. Yes. Excellent. Thank you. May I have a motion? I'll show you the grant extension until October 23rd of this year. October of 2023 may I have a second? Second. Thank you. Ms. Bedapurasi. Yes. Mr. Shepherd. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. We well. Yes. Mr. Lionel. Yes. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Thank you. Chair also votes. Yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you very much. All right. I can conclude the extensions. We can now move on to board final arbiter. We have BLA 1295572 through 72 high street. The applicant is Ryan and Tiffany Gavin. Hello, Madam Chair and board. Thanks for your time. I'm Ryan Gavin, the homeowner of 72 high. I'm hard to take high-level reds and changes. We've submitted those. We've submitted those. We've submitted those. We've submitted those. We've submitted those. We've submitted those. We've submitted those. We've submitted those. We've submitted those. We've submitted those. We've submitted those. We've submitted those. We've submitted those. We've submitted those. We've submitted those. We've submitted those. We've submitted those. We've submitted those. We've submitted those. We've submitted those. We've submitted those. We've submitted those. We've submitted those. We've submitted those. We've submitted those. We've submitted those. We've submitted those. We've submitted those. We've submitted those. We've submitted those. We've submitted those. We've submitted those. We've submitted those. We've submitted those. We've submitted those. We've submitted those. We've submitted those. We've submitted those. We've submitted those. We've submitted those. We've submitted those. We've submitted those. We've submitted those. We've submitted those. We've submitted those. We have the one that is there today. That's me. Have a better one. Have any questions from the board? I had the chance to review the drawings. The changes are minor and there's no additional zoning violations. Thank you. May I have a motion? I'd like to talk about motion of a motion. I'd like to talk about motion of a motion. I'd like to talk about motion of a motion. I'd like to talk about motion of a motion. I'd like to talk about motion of a motion. I'd like to talk about motion of a motion. I'd like to talk about motion of a motion. I'd like to talk about motion of a motion. I'd like to talk about motion of a motion. I'd like to talk about motion of a motion. I'd like to talk about motion of a motion. I'd like to talk about motion of a motion. I'd like to talk about motion of a motion. I'd like to talk about motion of a motion. I'd like to talk about motion of a motion. I'd like to talk about motion of a motion. I'd like to talk about motion of a motion. I'd like to talk about motion of a motion. I'd like to talk about motion of a motion. I'd like to talk about motion of a motion. I'd like to talk about motion of a motion. I'd like to talk about motion of a motion. I would like to talk about motion of a motion. We'll take the target that Summary mazes. We'll see. Alright so now we come on to build encoder Think zone. We час and we'll see a We'll see a Looking concern. Okay so now we can move on to Building. Thank you. All right. So now we can move on to Building. OK. to go to 7%? Hi, can you hear me? Ms. Mioa, were you about to say something? I could read out the violations. Yeah. So violation 1, 2, 0, 8.2, minimum ceiling height. OK. Tom, does she need to read the whole thing? Or is that fine? I've heard in the description of what the age yours study findable. I sure do. Yeah, the biological problems there. Minimum ceiling height, occupied with spaces, habitals, spaces, and corridors. She'll have a ceiling height of not less than 7 feet, 6 inches. Bathrooms, toilet rooms, kitchen, storage rooms, and laundry rooms. She'll have a ceiling height of not less than 7 feet. A prep area in the basement only has a height of 60 in two inches. Thank you. Is that OK? Ready? Yes, hi, can everybody hear me? Yes. Hi. My name is Mona Sheik. And the address is 204206. Cambridge Street, Boston, MA. The case number is VOA, 1.421197. I'm here to seek relief from the building court for ceiling height in the food prep area in the basement. Mr. James Kennedy on 427 of 2022, he issued our permits and approved our amendment for the long form, for the basement to be used as a prep area. Even though the architectural stamp drawings were stated that the ceiling height was under the proper height, it was still not picked up during the review process. And we had a final building inspector, Mr. Martin Dunlub, building inspector. He come on August 3rd, and he found the ceiling height to be lowered. And then on August 4th, he advised this that we can only receive a temp seal due to all this, and that I would have to go through the appeal. And Ms. Jill Fick, Ms. Jill Cox, Assistant Commissioner, and Mr. James Kennedy, they supported me to go through this appeal, so that we can make sure we can get a relief from this code. And we'll make sure that there is a limited one or two employees doing on the temp in the basement area. Thank you. Ms. Betaprasa? Yes, I do have a couple of questions. So is there an egress direct egress to a public way? Is it on Russell Street? Yes, so it's on the 24 Cambridge Street. Yes, the other street is Russell Street. OK, so I'm not seeing a site plant that shows egress. Just wanted to point to that. Is it sprinkler? No, the building is not sprinkled. We do have a fire station right next to us, right next door. No, I saw that. So that you have a fire station next door. Does it have a fire alarm system? Yes. Are there any instructions below the ceiling? The existing ceiling? No, there are any pipes within this foot too. Yes, I have photos to see the space. Yeah, yeah, no, no, there is none. So because it was approved on 427, 2022, we had done much of, this is my first restaurant. And I have spent a lot of money fixing everything in the basement for the temp area, including the not limited to a grease trap, a fordrain, the ceilings, making sure the floors are done correctly with polycrete. I've spoken to the health department and enclosed everything in the ceiling, even like little gaps and stuff, just so that it can be okay for the prep area. And this is the reason I'm here today, as I've done a lot in there after the approval, which again, I guess it was by mistake. It was approved. Okay, so I don't have drawings in regards to whether you have the fire system installed, whether you have detectors. I can't assess whether you have instructions. I find that you're lacking just photographs for me to understand this. So I would like to put forward a motion to defer until you provide documentation that the condition is unstructed and it's safe. Okay, thank you. So that's the motion. Tom, do we usually have to, can I bring forth the comment about the state building code? No, I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm having you discuss it if you have any questions. Yes, I think that would be helpful for the board members to understand this to me. So, since the state building code, a few points. So one other thing I want to just point out is, if it was two inches, it's fine, right? Like one can almost, there's only two inches from the semifee of building code, but this is almost a full 12 inches. So I just, I don't have enough information in front of me to ensure that it is in safe conditions or a one or two person to be in a basement. Yes, Tom, would you like to weigh in? Yeah, I'm out of charge. Typically, you know, that people can, you know, these building code cases to the zoning board or the board does. Sometimes we have building code relief, instances where it's familiar. You can like, understand the cases, you know, like with our, the hatches, the roof deck access, the board routinely does. This is a little bit different. I would just recommend that the board deny this and then have the applicant secretly put it in. Go to the award, also the bandachands to weigh in and offer their recommendations. I think that that in the architect has certainly qualified to do that, but I don't know if the rest of the board members have the high next for these people. But the building code, the award does have high next for these. So then, can I take back my motion then? Yes. And put a new motion forward, just listening to Tom's. Yes, thank you. I'll link to put a motion to deny. I'll say that I'm Chair. Thank you. Miss Bervaza. Yes. Mr. Shepherd. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Miss Wewell. Yes. Mr. Laylam. Yes. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. The Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. We recommend to the applicant that you follow and appeal with the state board code, building code appeal board for this case. Thank you. Next. Okay, so that concludes building code only. We can move on to the 930 AM scheduled hearings. Okay, first we have is BOA 1378873 for 24 West Tremlet Street and the applicant is Michael Cohen. Oh, Mr. Cohen. Hi, everyone. My camera's a little flicking a change in a moment. So you can see my face at the polls. Thank you so much for your time and attention today. We're not hearing our appeal. We are asking the board to approve legalizing a basement apartment that was built more than 30 years ago and to allow it's a long time occupant Willie Castro to remain in his home. We're not seeking to change how the property or unit have been used for the past 30 plus years. We've spoken about our project with the West of Washington Coalition together with our neighbors on West Tremlet Street. All of whom have indicated their support. With respect to the unit itself, I spoke with Lionel Gone Clients who purchased the building in the early 1990s and sold it to another party in the late 20 teens. And he told me that this unit was present in the building when he bought the house at the time it was extremely dated. So he updated it and then continued to rent it. The earliest documented use of the building that the unit, excuse me, that I could find in city records is a 1997 violation from ISD and starting five years ago, the city assessor of the office and taxing the building as a 4 unit property. Turning to the specifics of our project, what we're seeking to do is make changes to the unit so that it's in compliance with building codes, particularly with respect to fire and sanitary needs by adding an egress window and increasing the height of the entry door from 78 to 80s of inches. And I just want to emphasize we're not seeking to change the unit or how the power is confused. I held multiple meetings with the west of Washington coalition and their director is Leisha Burke and we're Washington who's also a neighbor on West Trimitz Creek. Both of them were supportive of our project and had submitted letters on behalf of Wow. Excellent. Thank you. Miss Bevara, do you have any questions? I've reviewed the plans. I have. I have reviewed the plans. The plans are adequate. I just have one question in terms of your egress. I'm unit one. Am I allowed to go through the common basement to get through the second meets of egress? Yes. Yes. OK. No further question. Thank you. Thank you. Are there any other questions from the board? Mr. Hampton, can you provide your recommendation? Thank you, Madam Chair and members of board. We recommend that approval. The only provider that we wanted was that there be no building code relief. We didn't see any building code issues. And I bring to the appellant they've updated it. But that's our own instruments. No building code. Thank you. May I take public testimony? Is there a public testimony? No. We do have one right hand. It was second. Let me just see. Is Ashley? Are you having a testimony for this project? Yes. The morning. All right. Members of the board. This is Ashley Gold to May. But services on behalf of the mayor and office. Well, do you like to defer the general to board at this time? I was subject to the numbers. We have been done. No letters of opposition. I'm just talking. Thank you. In the matter of check, I have no additional raise hands at the moment. Jack, it's Lindsay. Can I go? Absolutely. Yep. Hi, everyone. Good morning, Madam Chair and members of the board. My name is Lindsay Santana from the Office of the Council of WRL. The applicant received the support of the West of Washington Coalition and has worked with the butters to address concerns. So the Councilor would like to go on record and support this proposal. Thank you. Thank you, Lindsay. Any other questions from the board? May I have a motion? And make a motion to approve our new project with the proposal that nobody can code will be granted. Thank you. May I have a second? First, please. Ms. Berberaza. Yes. Mr. Schapford. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Ruehl. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you so much for the board. Thank you. Should we ask for any deferrals for the 930s before we continue? Are there any deferrals for the 930 cases? 85, 183. 85 what? I'm sorry. One every three diapologists. One every three. One every four. I forgot which one I was here for. Here. Okay. So, one every BLA 1309297, one every street, the applicant, is every development partners on LLC to do. Can you tell us about why you want any deferral? Thank you Madam Secretary, Madam Chair, members, again, Tom Miller from the Quetzalign Miller of 28 State Street in Boston. Here on behalf of the applicant, we are here requesting a deferral as this project is wound its way through the process. We have engaged an extensive community process so far, but we are requesting a deferral at the request of ONS and City Council Collett's office to finalize our discussions with the Welcome Neighborhood Association of the JPNI so that we can answer their final questions and discuss the final iteration of this project. We are asking for a quick deferral as we are hopefully going to be back to them within the next six weeks. Thank you, Mr. Miller. May I have a motion? I make a motion to grant the deferral. Thank you. Mr. Batbrosa. Yes. Mr. Schupper. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Wewell. Yes. Mr. Laiyam. Yes. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Chair also wrote yes motion carries. Do you have a date for them as we? We do. March 14th. Chair also wrote yes motion carries. Do you have a date for them as we? We do. March 14th. 1130. Thank you very much. Thank you. Eight so we are avenue. Sorry. Can you say that again? There are eight so we are avenue. Okay. Okay. Okay. B-O-A-1-3-9-404-3-8. So, our avenue, the applicant, is James Christopher. Mr. Christopher, can you focus through? It's attorney John Paul, Jenny. I can. I'll ask. I agree. Yeah, no, it's deferral. Just explain the. So, this is a plan. We have an endless community support except some plans for revised and those will file with the committee. We have to receive those back yet. We should get them any day. So, if we can get a short deferral, that would be much appreciated. Thank you. May I have a motion? Motion for the problem. May I have a second? Second. Thank you. Mr. Peter Prouser. Yes. Mr. Schupper. I'm sorry, Mr. Schupper. Yes. Mr. Schupper. I'm sorry, Mr. Schupper. Yes. Thank you. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Thank you. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Wewell. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Mr. Stemberg. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Do you have a date for them, Ms. Wewell? Yes. March 14, the 1130 as well. Thank you very much. Thank you. Are there any other deferrals or withdrawals for the 930? All right. Hearing none. Shall we move on? Next, we have the LA 136903940 Elmont Street. The applicant is Eric Zacherson. You're seeking to build a new two family building with violations for off-street parking, and the four area ratio building, high usable open space, front yard insufficient, side yard insufficient, and rear yard insufficient. Zacherson, are you here to talk? Sorry, Matt. This is turning Jeff Drego on the screen with the business address of 11 Beacon Street. We're on behalf of the applicant, Joni, and NSC. And I also have Eric Zacherson from Context Design. This is a proposed two family dwelling that were proposed to build on a vacant lot. We are also creating two parking spaces in the rear through a curb cut driveway that's shown at this rendering here. You can go on to the next slide, thank you. I'm just going to go over the four lands if you go on to the next slide. And this is just an aerial view. I can stop here for a moment. You can see our rendering. It's right to blend this building in with the context of the other buildings in the area. We have to the right to the left to the right of us. We have two family buildings to the left of us. This is one family behind us with threes and across the street are all twos. And this is a two F 5,000 square foot district. Next slide, please, Matt. This just shows our site plan. So you can see our 13 foot curb cut that enters the parking. So you'd be creating those two full parking spaces that are 8 foot and half by 20. Next slide, please. And now we get into the plans for the project. These are two bedroom units, two three bedroom units. These would be condo units in the basement, which is the used for common storage and mechanical room. We then go up to the first floor. This is a by level unit. So it has the first level and an upper level on the second floor. This unit is 1140 square feet on the first floor. It has one bedroom, two baths in a living area. And then as we go up to the second floor, the upper level has an additional bedroom, an additional bath. This second floor also houses the lower level of the second unit. And that's 1570 square 75 square foot three bedroom unit as well. And on that second floor, that one house living space and one bath. And that's finally as they go up to the third floor. That is the upper level. You can see that here. And that would house the additional two bedrooms and two baths. And this picture and this renderer, you can see the elevations. We are at 37 feet, eight inches, which blends into the context of this neighborhood. We only have rare egressed ears that then lead into a rare yard in the back. Just to go over the violations that were mentioned, it is a 5,000 minimum water area. We're at 2925 square feet, although the two family buildings that I mentioned are all within that 2,300 to 2,400 range, which is what we are as well, a little bit bigger than that. We also got cited for FAA 1.19.5 is what the requirement is. We're at three stories, 37 feet. And so that is, if you look at the context that does that is prevalent in this neighborhood, but the height allows to and a half and 35 feet. Our open space is 490. So we're under the requirement of 750. And then our side yard is 3 feet on the right hand side, although there's a large side yard next to us. And then we meet the requirement with 13 feet on the left side. 10 is what would be required. And then in our rear yard, we do have 10 feet alongside of our parking. The 20 would be required. And as I mentioned, these are condo and this were sale proposed. I can pause and answer any questions at the board, ma'am. See if there was parking or no parking. There are two parking spaces, Madam Chair. It's shown in one of the earlier plans in their full-size spaces that would go along the visionaries. In one of the pictures, they show a weight fence to your right. Is that part of your property or in adjacent property? Well, that's the adjacent property to the right of us. And that's an open water. Okay. Thank you. Miss Beto-Frazza, have you reviewed the plans? I have, I have reviewed the plans there. It's adequate and for two F $5 and stuff district, the proposal seems reasonable. Thank you. Are there any other questions from the board? Mr. Hampton, do you have a recommendation? Thank you, Madam Chair. Members in the board, actually, we do not have a formal recommendation, but I'd like to echo Miss Beto-Barras' comments that they had two family dwelling in a two-family district. Thank you. Thank you. Mayor here, a public testimony. Morning, Madam Chair, members of the board, Ashley Vomit, May board services. On behalf of the man off, we would like to defer the judgment to the board this time. So if we're going to put our meetings have been done, we do have a letter of opposition, the Harvard Washington Moral, May board of associates, indicating the space would be better served as a long family. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Are there any other, sorry? Hi, Chair. Jessica. Yes, Lindsay. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board, Lindsay, Santa, and the opposite Councillor Bray and Rowe. I would like to echo what Ashley just said. We would like to defer to the board for judgment. We do have a letter of opposition and non-opposition from Harvard, Washington, Norwell, May board of associates. Thank you. Thank you. Just got there any other raised hands? No other raised hands. Okay. May I have a motion from the board? Madam Chair, I'd like to talk to a motion of approval with two pro-Isal that it goes under BPDA design review and the second is to provide pervious surface to offset he-I-lant fact. Thank you. Okay. May I have a second? Aye. Second. Thank you. Mr. Rousell? Yes. Mr. Schephardt? Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Ms. Ruewell? Yes. Mr. Langham? Yes. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Mr. Rousell, can I just ask Mr. Rousell, is that pervious surface just for the parking area? Just for the parking area because there's kind of minimum open space so to kind of just maximize that it's better to have a permeable driveway. All right. Thank you. Thank you. Next case. So next we have BLA128-5663. 84 less cottage street. The applicant is Paul Yu seeking to erect new construction of a multi-family dwelling with seven units and seven parking spaces. The violations are use regulation, the law area insufficient, additional law area insufficient, floor area ratio excessive building height excessive, and stories and feet usable open space and sufficient front yard side and rear yard setbacks are insufficient. Yes. And this is Sean Jolie on the owner. All they're presenting. Okay. Can you walk us through the plans and let us know how many bedrooms there are as well. Yeah. It's a mixture of units. So there's a studio on the first floor and then three two bedrooms on the second floor. And two bedrooms. Sorry. I'm just going through here. Do we want to go through who we are or anything of this or the meetings or just. I guess you can feel free to introduce yourself. If there's anyone else presenting for you, they can identify themselves at that time. Yeah. Colin, my brother is online. Elizabeth Wilson was online from Benburn Franklin's to technology but she had to drop off for another meeting, unfortunately. I don't know if you can tell you are our protectors online. If there's questions that relate more to the plans that I can't answer. Thank you. So we're. So the seven units total seven parking spots we originally presented to the neighborhood in 2021. A 12 unit project. Our initial feedback on the site was they really wanted a one to one parking ratio. We had seven parking units. We could have seven parking spaces. We could have seven units. So it's parking underneath the building. The neighborhood in general was supportive with a couple of three shows that. You know, one they wanted to see that there was some affordability there to have some cameras. There would be some neighborhood benefits. So part of it is this corner. They want to have more security and lighting. So we're going to have a lot of those one of things is they want to have something built on it. Those are things that we've done in courageous and it's just sat there and it just hasn't been feasible to build it. So yeah, we've gone through five total meetings, including. So on that's for walk us through the community process. If you could focus on the building itself and the violations. Yep, dude. Hold down. To the architecture plans or. I guess if you wouldn't Paul, do you want to present the plans themselves? If you're on. I'm going to see on the end of PY because I try to make them a panelist. Yes, he why. Okay, okay. Paul, I'm making you a panelist now. What's your company analyst just a new yourself and you're right. Thank you. So the whole building is to build a seven unit building on the vacant lot. We start with the ground floor with a one studio unit and service parking or seven parking spaces. I'm finished basement floor mechanical space. And the second floor will have. It won't that you. It to bedroom to two bedroom units and the third floor will have a two bedroom unit and two two boxes that go sub on. For. We see seeking belief on. Not area. FAR. Building height. And open space. Embry. Hello. Yes, can you hear me? Yes. Okay, good. So. They're here. Here on the. That's the. The corner units in the front facing corner units are going to be the two boxes in the rail units. The rail yard is going to be the two bedroom units. And here are the upper level space for the two classes on the third and four. We say, you know, private outdoor outdoor space. I think it's a sorry. Are these rentals or over commons? Rentals. And there's two affordable units as part of it. So it's 28% of the total units. Can I ask which units are restricted? Yes, the first floor unit will be an ADA studio restricted and one of the second floor two bedrooms. Thank you. Can I ask what are the. What is the. An MVM for the. Plastic ten units. 80%. And 90%. Okay. And also do you have to open a new driveway and a new core code? Yes. To polish your product on West College. Yes, per person. Have you reviewed the players? I have managed your. The joints are out of it. I have no further questions. Okay. Are there any other questions from the board? Mr. Hampton, do you have a recommendation? I think Madam Chairman, we actually recommended to know if I'm prejudice. They're choosing put seven units on there now with three family districts. A lot of the buildings around that wire three families. And I think we're going to have to go to the next floor. To us, this is just a little too expensive. Thank you. May I hear a public testimony? Yes. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. He's just sent in from the mayor's office of the neighborhood services. The applicant met with the butters and DSNI, the street neighborhood initiative. What they presented to theirs is the state of all development committee. They do believe that this project could be a benefit to community. DSNI has decided to not write letters of support, but is not an opposition to this project. And at this time, we would like to defer the judgment to the board. Thank you. Tisha, are they the only ones who you've heard from as far as support or opposition? Yeah, so there's no, no, no other known support in terms of brought to our, like letters, brought to our office. Yeah, but they did with the butters. You said you had a butters meeting? Yes, my predecessor held that butters meeting. And was there any feedback or attendance? Attendance, there was just questions on affordability and community benefits. But no, no, no support or opposition. Thank you. Madam Chair, is it okay if I make a quick comment? Yes, please. Okay, I'm sorry. I just wanted to just provide some context as well to Jeff Hampton's feedback in terms of the neighborhood being the three F district. One block down just on West County Street is also multi-family. And you have multi-family owned by Boston House and Authority. And it's all along the same street. Within walking distance, you mean? Yeah, it's probably three parcels down from the property. So just when you give that context in terms of it is in a three family, but right down the street is also multi-family residents. Thank you. All right, let's continue with the public testimony. Is there anyone else to speak in support or opposition? We did have letters of support that were sent in. As we were, do you have those on file? We do. Can you give us a sense of how many and what? There is. We do have a few letters of support. Let me just scan make sure there's no. Two. Maybe. And then we have several letters of support. Any any any opposition? No. Thank you. And I'm sorry, Jessica, did you say there was any other raise plans? The order. Did we hear from onus yet? Yes. Perfect. You have a raised hand here at the lease. Can you state your name and address for the work at please once you're unmuted? I do see your comments in the chat about parking in the property line. So if you are able to unmute yourself and you want to give testimony, you can. Otherwise, I have no additional real hints. Okay. Is that person unmuting themselves? I sent a request too, but. Okay. Are there any other questions from the board? Yes. I have a question. I'm going to the property and there are a lot of these more trees around the property. Is the proponent going to keep any of those trees, especially in the back of the lot? We'd like to. We don't know if we can. We actually planted some more trees on the back of the neighboring property as well. So we're we love it. What I think they're commenting now is the fence is actually in the wrong location on the property line. So the fence that's there on the pictures, this is not, you know, doesn't represent or change the actual lot size. But ages ago, prior to us owning a walk when the fence put up, it's on top of the owners yard as well. You have to move that fence as part of that. We have to work with them to figure out what the trees to their own that fence would be able to stay. But we're going to work through that. We're going to move that fence, tear it down, put it on the actual property line and then make sure that the trees, if we do anything, move there. But every single property we have, we'd like to keep trees because you think residents like it. Okay. And we like it. Excuse me. I'm sorry Mr. Shepherd. You have a question? Yes. Okay. Can we explain again where the seven parking spots will be due to the fact that what's called each tree on that side does not provide parking? And also the side street as well as definitely usually packed. And I also like to say as far as the multi-unit at the end of the street, that has a setback and a parking lot as well. So it's a little different from what I'm seeing on this drawing. But I just wanted to state that. But I'm mostly asking about the seven parking. Yes. Can you clarify that first, please? The parking lot, the entry is on west parking side. There is no parking. So, and that was the neighborhood community brought that on here, which I had on a gallon. And they said, hey, this is important. Don't take away a parking spot on a gallon. There's no parking already. And we thought, you know what, that makes a lot of sense. So it comes off of west cottage where there's no parking and goes into it. So you're not losing a parking spot. And you enter in and you have seven parking spots effectively, you know, on street level. And the building is kind of a podium about that. And then. Sorry. Cherry, you're on mute. Sorry. I said, I'm sorry. It said it looks like you have a curb cut already on west cottage. Are you using your assistant curb cut? It's not really. I don't think it's officially a curb cut. It's been there for years and there's actually a fence. I think you know, you use it for like trucks getting in and off. But there's not really any use it right now. It's just to kind of like a lot on it. It's been empty for years. Okay. Are there any other questions that answer your question, Mr. Schupper? Okay. Yes. Any other questions from the board? I have one question. Yes, Mr. Layton. Yes, Mr. Layton. Are any of these journalists going to be available for low income residents? All of them effectively are available, you know, on terms of like section 8 vouchers. There's no restrictions from that sense. And two of them are going to be affordable units. And that's 28% of the total unit count. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. No, I'm trying to ask a question. Yes, Mr. Schupper. Apart from the applicant, how long would those units be affordable for how many years? We are planning that to be indefinite. In perpetuity? In perpetuity. Those are planning if any restrictions or plans that they wouldn't be. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Was that a, may I have a motion? Madam Chair, this is Tom. Can I just make a suggestion to the board? Sure. Anyone who is going to approve it if the board wants to, that's all could include it for five. So that the applicant identifies the affordable units, for the certificate, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't see with ISD, you know, how those practically affordability of the building. With that, do I have a motion? Madam Chair, I'd like to put forward a motion of approval with BTD and VPDA design review of building location on the site plan and the amount of parking spaces and our clearance, paying special attention to the ground floor to maximize open space, preserve trees as much as possible, and increase your yard setback. And any other provider, which Tom stated to officially put on record the two, in-compost treated units with ISD and MOH. Thank you. May I have a second? I'll second that. Thank you. Madam Chair, please. Yes. Mr. Shepard. Yes. Mr. Valencia. I like the project. I like especially that this proponent is offering two affordable units and for the best neighbor, yes. Thank you. Ms. Wigraw. Yes, I'd like to align myself with the comments and support many of them point to the unit mix, the level of affordability and overall design of the project. So yes. Thank you. Mr. Langham. Yes. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Chair also votes, yes. Motion carries. Thank you. We have the pearls for the 1030s. Thank you, Paul. Katie. So do we have anyone requesting a deferral for the 1030 cases? Yes, Madam Chair. Madam Secretary. Attorney Mixes-O-Lis is nine of Oswald Street. It is about halfway through Madam Secretary on page six of the agenda. Thank you. Can you let us know the reason for the repust? Yes, absolutely, Madam Chair. Again, Attorney Mixes-O-Lis McDermacquilky and Miller, 28 State Street at Boston. Madam Chair, this is just a simple need to be re-advertised to add two zoning violations that weren't on the original hearing notice for today's date. In order to be compliant with the enabling act in the zoning code, it needs to be on the refusal letter, open space, and location of main entrance to the refusal. I believe it already out the firm is to attorney broom, but I believe it already has been advertised again. There's a little bit of information. Oh, there's a little bit of 30? Sorry, I'm sorry. There's a little bit of 30. Mr. Dupier, yes. Thank you. How about could repeat anything you need? Not necessary. I just realized that Katie did everything in the information into the record. Sorry. I can't read that. So, BOA 1146747, 9 Oswald Street, applicant 9 Oswald LLC, seeking change of views, 3 to 4 family, with living space in the basement. Thank you. So, do I have a motion? Motion for the file. I have a second. It's a class. Thank you. Mr. Berraza. Yes. Mr. Schupper. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Wewell. Yes. Mr. Laylam. Yes. Mr. Sanbridge. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Are there any other deferrals for 1030? Madam Chair, this is Tom. Just the last one, 9 Oswald Street. I'm not sure if we advertise that yet. I don't know. Okay. We will tell you what the next day would be. If I may, Mr. Attorney, my apologies to jump in. You have re-advertised. I'm looking at the re here. You re-advertised here. You'll notice. Okay. So, you re-advertise the next. Can you say? Yes, sir. February 7 to 1130. I believe Stephanie sent out. And we did receive it in time. And I'm looking at it now. Yes. Okay. Just note that on the end. Thank you very much. You're welcome. Thank you very much. Sorry to jump in. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I have a motion. Yes. Oh, sorry. We really did that. We're there. Another conference for 1030. I'm sorry. We're hearing none. Katie. You want to go back to the month 30s? Yes. Next. We have BLA 1396648. 19. Heveral Street. The applicant is Peter Fironos. They are seeking to construct a roof deck. finance is up. Take their need system.bros running it. Let's see. For the room. diversion. That the building high is extended in terms of the feet. Alright. Hello, sir. actually is currently in place. I've been brought in to clarify and correct permitting and then move forward. The roof deck is 18 by 30 total of 540 square feet minus one space that lets down through for sunlight into third floor unit. The Jones Hill area is a very steep area. The front of this property drops off over 15 steps to the sidewalk which lends itself to our request for this relief. The community process was complete both with the neighborhood and the Jones Hill group. We made some adjustments to our initial plan in deleting the pergola by condo documents making an exclusive third floor use only roof deck and limiting all future structure to the height of the rail which is 36 and a half feet above grade. I think that about covers you have any questions? Thank you. Any questions from the board? Madam Chair of the question. So in our sheet in the file there's also a comment that there will be a building violation for the Spyro script staircase. Madam Chair, I was talking about this week on that. Yes. The issue of building a good violation on a later date, if the plans aren't resolved but that would be an internal building issue if it's not put on the floor of the board today just as I only have a house at this point. Okay. Thank you. No further comment. The deck's been kind of semi built right because in the right so you're just correcting it by removing pergola structure and also proposing internal access from the unit below directly to the roof deck correct not through the exterior just spiral staircase. Whether interior or exterior effort is to avoid the other violation by changing from a spiral staircase to a traditional staircase if the board has a pleasure on either but we have it a ticket to the other. Okay. Thank you. No further questions. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? With that may I have public testimony? So. Morning. Madam Chair, members of the board. As she comes from the other services on behalf of the mayor. I'd like to declare that just once the board at this time also the Grand Board of Meeting's have been done. Jones Hill Association of what has happened signs of the deck. Those are built in the process of getting approval and going to the proper steps with the previous contractor that was on the project. Thank you Ashley. Just goes there any other public comment? I have no way of standing at the moment. Okay. Did you read BPD 8's presentation? Mr. Hantam, would you like to weigh in? Thank you Madam Chair, members of the board. I will be concerned of what these plans have started to love with some sets that are being moved. We don't have a concern I guess. I guess it just depends on whether or not to do interior access with the hatch or headhows. I don't know if the headhows would be coming back to you. So. Does the applicant want to address that now? It is our goal to have an exterior egress access that complies. If we cannot achieve that I work with the owner to work on interior access that does complies. Okay. Thank you. What's that may I have a motion? Madam Chair, I would like to put forward a motion but to provide so one BPD design review on the size of the roof deck and two that it would be of roof access directly from the unit and not through next year. Where's the virus there? Thank you. You do have a second. Yes, thank you. Thank you. Mr. Berrazo. Yes, thank you. Mr. Shepard. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Wewell. Yes. Mr. Lallem. Yes. Ms. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Scherger. Yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Okay. Next we have B.O.A. 1409912 for five Worcester square. They are seeking to amend a prior permit to reconfigure room sizes from the original plans on different levels and to construct a new exterior deck off of the second floor. There are violations include dimensional regulations for floor area ratio, townhouse, roadhouse extensions into the rear yard and restricted roof structure regulations. Thank you. Is that looking on? Good morning, Madam Chair. I'm Mr. Scherger. I'm Mr. Scherger. I'm Mr. Scherger. I'm Mr. Scherger. I'm Mr. Scherger. I'm Mr. Scherger. I'm Mr. Scherger. I'm Mr. Scherger. I'm Mr. Scherger. I'm Mr. Scherger. I'm Mr. Scherger. I'm Mr. Scherger. I'm Mr. Scherger. I'm Mr. Scherger. I'm Mr. Scherger. I'm Mr. Scherger. I'm Mr. Scherger. I'm Mr. Scherger. I'm Mr. Scherger. I'm Mr. Scherger. I'm Mr. Scherger. I'm Mr. Scherger. I'm Mr. Scherger. I'm Mr. Scherger. I'm Mr. Scherger. I'm Mr Scherger. I'm Mr Scherger. I'm Mr Scherger. I'm Mr Scherger. I'm Mr Scherger. I'm Mr Scherger. I'm Mr Scherger. I'm Mr Scherger. I'm Mr Scherger. I'm Mr Scherger. I'm Mr Scherger. I'm Mr Scherger. I'm Mr Scherger. I'm Mr Scherger. I'm Mr Scherger. I'm Mr Scherger. I'm Mr Scherger. I'm Mr Scherger. I'm Mr Scherger. I'm Mr Scherger. I'm Mr Scherger. I'm Mr Scherger. I'm Mr Scherger. I'm Mr Scherger. I'm Mr Scherger. I'm Mr Scherger. I'm Mr Scherger. I'm Mr Scherger. I'm Mr Scherger. Thank you. Mr Barber, I have your review of the class. Ben and Chair are you in plans and there are questions? I have no questions. Neither do I. Does anyone have any questions from the board? Yes, Madam Scherger. I mean, this is a beautiful building. And I'm wondering if there are other buildings on the order units? On the same block? Are you aware of other buildings that have a similar deck situations? Yes, I can. Sorry. It's okay. Where else out the Purdue? I can jump in. Yes, it's pretty common. The penthouse and the rich deck. And it's the street. Thank you. Are there any other questions from the board? I'm sorry. I don't know. I don't know. Chair, to be clear the additions on the rear deck and the other deck. That is correct. Mr Scherger, the roof deck and then the second floor of the rear deck. That's correct. Thanks. Thank you. Thank you. May I have public testimony? Yes, Kim Crucioli from the There's Office of Neighborhood Services. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. We had a butters meeting in November of 2022, where support was shown by the butters. They received all positions from the Western Square Area and the British Publication at this time. We'd like to defer to the board. Thank you. Thank you. I'm trying to have no words here. Thank you. With that, Mayor. I'm sorry. So you hear from VPDA? Oh, I'm sorry. No, we did not. Mr. Hapton, would you like to weigh in? Thank you, Madam Chair, members of the board. My only question to Matt Day, landmarks, bless everything on your project. Big idea. We received approval from landmarks. All right. So we had asked for a design review, especially in the rear decks, but this landmarks has already done it. And we don't need to see it. So we would just recommend it. Thank you. Was that me? I entertain a motion. I'm sorry. Mr. Shepherd made a motion. May I have a second? I second. Thank you. Ms. Badboraza? Yes. Mr. Shepherd? Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Ms. Liewell? Yes. Mr. Lannam? Yes. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you very much. Next, we have BLA 135 1164 170 Old Colony Ave. The applicant is Timothy Johnson. They are seeking really for the use law area, a lot with lot frontage floor area ratio, open space, front and side yard, off street parking requirements, dimensional regulations. They are seeking new demolished existing structure, or action new floor storage, four unit building with garage and front balconies. That's it. Thank you. Is the applicant on? Thank you, Madam Chair. This is Tim Jones and architect 599 East Broadway, South Boston. My client Kevin Kerr is also on the Zoom meeting. At first, please. Thank you. This 0.03 acre site is located in the base code sub-district M-1 where multi-family is a condition of use. It is also located in the Old Colony Ave high growth corridor identified by the BPDA. The by-right building height in this corridor is 40 feet, same as the building height as in all of South Boston. Thank you. My client Kevin Kerr has owned this property for 23 years. It is proposing to the Moj. That side, please, can hold there for a second. Thank you. My client Kevin Kerr is on this property for 23 years. And it's proposing to the Moj. Is it the existing structure? Interact a new four story for unit building with one car garage? Could we go to the previous side, please? Thank you. We're proposing a new four story for unit building with one car garage. The three two bedroom and one one bedroom units will be rentals and priced as workforce housing. The BPDA identifies workforce housing as housing affordable to households earning between 60% and 120% AMI and includes firefighters, teachers, and health care workers. The site is also located within a five minute walk of the annual square transit station. Next slide, please. For the BPDA's planned south Boston, 170 old colony out of the shown on the right label is located in the as of right, 40 foot height zone and the density bonus 60 foot height zone. We are proposing four stories at 40 feet. Photos of old colony high growth corridor on the left show three, four, five, and six story building. The 170 site is identified by the small dark blue building in the photos. Next slide, please. The proposed site plan shows the main entrance to the building off old colony at the bottom right and at the top left of the building is the garage entrance which faces Earl Street. The site is also located in the flood zone X and conforms to the BPDA's coastal flood resilience requirements. That is the lowest level of the proposed building is one foot above flood-based elevation. Next slide, please. Next slide, please. Right there, thank you. This three-deview from the corner of Earl and Old colony shows the garage entrance on the right side facing Earl Street and the main entrance on the left side facing old colony have. Each unit has a generous balcony and no roof deck decks are proposed. Next slide, please. Again, this is a view of the main entrance which faces old colony have. And I also want to note, we set back the upper floors in the rear at the second-thirty floor to open up the view corridor for the abutting building. There, we are existing rear roof decks. Next slide, please. The shadow studies show except for winter solstice that there are minimal shadows cast on the abutting building at Earl Street. Can I go to the previous slide, please? Finally, the proposed workforce housing within a five-minute walk of a transit station will be 100% electric for heating, cooling, and cooking. There will be no fossil fuel hookups to this building reducing its carbon footprint over the light of the building. And with that, Madam Chair, my client-owned will take questions. Here. Miss Bada Barossa? Have you had a chance to review the plans? Madam Chair, I did have the opportunity to review the plans and it's pretty much adequate. The only question I have is how did you determine just one park in space? We go down to the site plan, previous the other way, direction, please. One more, one more. Thank you. Miss Bada Barossa, the existing site is a small footprint. The Earl Street has garage doors facing Earl Street. That's in the logical location for one parking garage. We did need room for unit one, which is a duplex unit. The bedroom is on the first floor and then we have finished media space in the lower level. And Johnson. Mr. Johnson, given all the sort of modern families and two or three stories, how did you decide upon your four stories? Again, Madam Chair, this site is located in the Oak Lawning Ave, High Grove corridor, where four stories is a by-right, is by-right per the BPDA self-busting plan. Also, the maximum building height in all of self-boston is 40 feet. So we felt that going four stories at 40 feet was appropriate for this area. Are there other questions from the board? I have one question. I would like to know what unit would occupy that one property spot. What unit would occupy that one property spot? Yes, sir. It would be the unit one would have the dedicated park room spot. Why is that? Well, right now, because of, again, the small building footprint, we didn't have a lot of lantern for circulation. So it was an easy adjacency to make between unit one and the parking space. As you can see on this site plan here, the door of the garage leads right into unit one. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Yeah, are there other questions from the board? Yes, I have a couple of questions, Madam Chair. Mr. Johnson, is there any unit space in the basement? Yes, right now we show it as a media room, no bedroom. There's no, the bedroom for unit one is on the first floor. We do show media space in the first floor. We can scroll to that site plan if you wish. Both three more down. So there shows the lower level with the media room in the bathroom and wash the dryer in the lower level. And what is this situation for the emergency exes or the e-gates for that space? Well, this is a four-story multi-family. We will be spring full. So a basement has per the IBC and have one means of e-gress from the lower level with a travel distance less than 125 feet. So we do need that code requirement. Therefore we have the one stair which leads up to the unit and then out the front or rear floor. Okay, the other question is do you mention that you have some workforce units? What is the area I mean, comfort those units again? Well, all units will be rented out and priced for work for housing as identified by the BPDA. These are households that earn between 60% and 120% AMI. And includes firefighters, preserves, and teachers, healthcare workers, excel. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Okay, Mr. Moore. And can I get a clarification from Jeff Hampton and we can also hear Jeff and Bob Dominguez VTD feedback on parking? I have a question on the seafront that there should be no living space below grade. But does that also include kind of media spaces or storage space in this? We've recommended it now without writing this on this project. One of the reasons is because the living space that is below grade, whether it's a media room or whatever, it's still living space. So we recommended denial for that. You know, we'd also like to see some increase setback on the building design. One of the things that Mr. Johnson's thrown around is an as of right 40 feet. So the planning guide for me has been adopted, but the zoning has never been codified. Which is why they've been, which is why they're here. So I don't want that to sound misleading. That's 40 feet to the as of right because it's not, because they got sighted some building height. The plan has been adopted. The zoning recommendations have never been caught in that area. What concerns to your answer again is that the living space below grade, we'd like to see that out. Okay. And then Bob, Mr. Kuhn gone. Yes, I see a hand raised. Yes, Madam Chair. Madam Chair, members of the board, Bob and the equal BTA. Mr. Johnson, that one part of the space is not going to require any curb cut. Currently there are, Earl Street has no granite curvy. It is basically paved driveway up to each garage door. There's no discernible curvy on that street. So the answer question is, we were just continuing the existing conditioner. Okay, we require a curb cut to public work. And the BKD is against one parking space for anything because you'll take it away parking from the street and it's one space is just something we can't approve because I add, you know, taking one park is the way from the neighborhood. So I'd like to go on right there and then I'll open that one parking space. Thank you, Madam Chair. Okay, Bob. Just a response. Yes, Mr. Domingo. Currently one car does park off street on that site. Well, I understand that, but unfortunately when you build a new building, those types of things are not grandfathered in. We go by the new regulations. They're not the old ones. Oh, based on the new regulations, I can't let go of it with response to this project. The BKD perspective, we requested denial on that parking space. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Are there any other questions from the board? With that, I'll entertain all the testimony, please. Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor Newman with the mayor's office, neighborhood services. This time the mayor's also deferred judgment to this board. Some bad information, bad information in the community process. O and S on the butters meeting on August 8th. Residents that were in attendance, expressed concerns regarding the hype, saying that they felt it would create a bad precedent for that quarter. There were also some concerns expressed about road and activity around the property. They went on to the Andrews Weir Civic Association, which voted to oppose this proposal. I would favor to defer judgment to the board. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Newman. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board, Anna Calderon from Council President Flings Office. The councilor would like to complicate wearing support based on a thorough community process that the project will consist of affordable apartments in our first housing. And the attention to sustainability with the building being fully electrified. Council President Flings, respectfully request that the procurement work closely with the community doing the construction. Thank you. Thank you, Anna. Madam Chair, members of the board, also in the city council at large, Michael Flerry. Echoing the sentiments of councilor Flings Office, the council feels that this is a fair honest project that's in line with the other properties in the neighborhood and we'll like to land this unequivocal support. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Williams-Tantier. I'm Stella Michelle. Can you state your name in address for the record, please? It's on the new. Hi, can you hear me? Yes. Yes. My name is Michelle Rock. I live at 11.0, which is two houses down from the property and question. Thank you, are you? Go ahead. Yeah, so I sent in an email. I'm not sure. I haven't heard anything about letters that support. If you can just state whether you're in support or opposition and your reasons. I'm in opposition and I'm in opposition for the following reasons. The proposed renovation will take up the entire lot. It's a huge size for a very small space. Absolutely no room around it. There's not enough parking for the tenants. So more cars will need to park on already congestive streets. Earl is a very small private way and I'm worried about how the school affect my ability to get in and out of my own house. The existing property hasn't historically been managed well and they've been lapped. And then I saw that the owner hasn't lived on that property when he ever did. And then lastly, the proposed renovation would exceed the height and size of all the properties of budding it. They referenced other properties on old colony but none of those are nearby. And it will block our sunlight and overall be a negative effect for our home balance. Thank you. Thank you, Michelle. Can additional testimony please add value to that and new information. Thank you. Thank you, Claire. Good morning Madam Chair and ZBA members. John Pekertowski, lifelong resident of Andrew Squares, South Boston, also co-chair of the Andrew Squares Civic Association Development Committee. ASEA, after engagement to the community process and capable review of the proposal and ISD plans with them in the findings, stands in opposition to this proposal. And I'd like to thank Mr. Hampton for adding clarity to the 2016 South Boston. God have study. And in my own opinion, this proposal does not lend itself to the cities and job to climate action plans but rather continuously heat island effect. Thank you. Thank you. All right, we'll better move on this. Second. Second. Thank you. Okay. Sorry, Senator Quesson, you need to be better than I do. Okay, thank you. Yeah, I got it now. Good morning Madam Chair and Members of the Board of Brutal Gomez. I own 13 Earl Street, the direct butter to this proposed building. I'm in opposition due to the hype. If I go back to slide two of the presentation, you can see all the immediate buildings are kind of cat at the current three stores of the townhouses that exist there now. And going above that right would not really fit in with the current neighborhood. And also as Michelle brought up the owner Mr. Kerr, currently owns the building that's there now, which has been in a very bad state of disrepair for over a decade and the worries with these rentals that he will not keep up with taking care of this future building that will be much larger and if that's the case, it would be much more of a new since end and a firm problem. And thank you. Thank you Mr. Gomez. No, there's no problem. Sorry, Kevin, were you looking to get testimony? Kevin Kerr? I'm a proponent so I would guess not. Okay, actually one of the butters is here. Yeah. I remember you mentioned that earlier. Yeah, good morning. I'm John O'Gillensky at the 164 Royal Comedy. My brother, Ronald and I direct the butters. We both strongly support this project. He has encouraged me a pretty good neighbor for a long time, like 20 years. And I would like to see the project done and completed. Thank you. Thank you. I don't get some great comments. Any additional comments from the board? Who are questions? I have a question for the on-room or the representative from the BDD in the event we approved the project in BDD doesn't approve the part, the underground parking. No, the parking, I spailer, they have what happens with the project. Mr. O'Gillens, this is Tom. You know, if you could have provided them on their board of parking, we're viewed for BDD. That's one thing. But BDD doesn't weigh in on the parking, so you look for the parking for residential buildings less than part of the Oracle 80 process. So we've got a provider, there's no BDD review at all. So without a provider, it would be approved, does it? If it were approved. Yeah, unless you've had it, unless you wanted to provide it with a change, some aspect of the design or you wanted the BDD to work on the design, you know, the parking or BDD to look at more particular piece of the parking would be and approval as the plan that would approve for that. Thank you. Does that answer your question, Mr. Wonson? Yes, thank you, I'm sure. Thank you. Are there any additional questions or comments from the board? With the Chairman's permission, I just would know just that there were letters of support, including from Congressman Lynch, and if we could add that to the record of the hearing. As we roll, what do you have on the record? We do have, we have both letters of support and letters of opposition for this project. Dean, we have scale for us. There are several letters. There are more in opposition than in support, but there are still, you know, several letters in support of the project. Thank you. We'll wrap it. I have a question Madam Chairman, the time is right. Now is the time for our board discussion, yes. Okay, this is to the applicant. So you do have one parking space for this project. I would actually be supportive of less parking, but my question is, with this project having different levels of affordability, which sort of unit would get that parking stall in terms of affordability level? This is Tim Johnson, the project architect. We could isolate the garage, so the only way to get to the garage would be go out to building to the garage door itself. That would be good. I need the question is, which, so as unit one and affordable unit, or not in the one unit, I think that was kind of, was that your question is more? Yes, thank you, my Chair. Yes, all the units would be workforce housing, household earning between 16 and 120% AMI. So if any one of those units, what is unit one? Yeah, what is unit one, which is same? But what level of affordability is that? That would be a household earning between 16 and 120% AMI. So you have an employment, you have an employment before, between that, because that's a big range. So of the four units, how are you determining, how are you setting the specific AMI for each unit? Well, we could start at the lower end for the lower unit and then go up from there. So that the lower end of the scale, the AMI scale, could be unit one, and then we go up from there. So yes, unit one would be the lower scale of the AMI. Thank you. I think the concern is 16 to 120, could mean all of them are 120, I think they think the point of having affordable workforce house. You know, we could say unit one would be the lower end 16% AMI. If I could also add to that, what, this is market rate workforce housing. So I do not think we have to make distinctions between units. These are not luxury units. These are sized on the second, third and fourth, four, seven hundred and ninety two, eight hundred and nine, square feet. These are two bedroom, one bed. Mr. Crow, we understand your comment. However, Mr. Johnson has indicated that these are workforce units from 16 to 120% AMI. And I believe the nature of the questions from the board are how do you, how do we ensure that the full range is met within the project? And are you committing to that at this meeting? Or are you using that as sort of a marketing? I think Katie, that's up to the board to, with the provisos. Right. Are there any other questions from the board? I have more questions. I'm sorry, Mr. Lambo. I have more questions. I want to know that something like a wonderful project, but have you met with the tenants? What are neighbors? Does it seem like they have guessed this project? This is from Johnson. I just want to speak. Oh, what moment has walked us through the process already? The community process, were there other questions beyond that, Mr. Ro? No, I was a little concerned about that. I have a quick answer that, yes, we've worked through the community process. We've left shadow studies. We've made every effort to talk to neighbors, including the immediate butters that have been discussed. Okay. Well, I think Mr. Burke, I think we have enough information. Can I have a motion from the board? Madam Chair, it's Jeff. Can I say is that the first? Yes, sir. The BPD is not having adopted policy for workforce. It just got off the phone with the Director of Policy and Force. So, I don't know about these AMIs or even the workforce. I was saying I just got off the phone and this isn't something that's in the top of policy. Okay. Thank you, if that is helpful. Okay. With that, may I entertain a motion from the board? I'm sure I make a motion. Yes. I make a motion. I consider that workforce units are important. But still, there are things that the proponent has to figure it out with the boss to transportation department. So, I make a motion to approve with provisional that plants should be submitted to the BPD, A for the sign review, and to the BPD, boss to transportation department for the sign to review of the proposed parking space. Mr. Williams, you don't have anything about workforce housing, which Mr. Hampton just said is not an official thing with the BPD, BDA. Yes, so also to the proponent to register the four units that will be workforce housing or order. So, accept it as a affordable housing to be registered at the City of Boston as a affordable units. Is that something that we did before we had another project? I think that's a question for you. Yeah, but this is the first day of this storm. This small one, you know, in instances where now, again, is representing that they have the more immune to the affordable with the BPD, A process doesn't happen like in this project. So, this is only a four unit building. It's not hard enough to figure any kind of arts project or small project review with the BPD, usually by recommendation that the four require that the applicant identify which students are going to be affordable, which am I is in the proviso and that they can record that as part of the certificate of e-conoccurrency that ISD have issued for that particular company. So, may I make a suggestion, Mr. Valencia, that they identify one unit at each of 60, eating 120? That is correct. Okay. May I have a second? No. There's no second. I need a new motion. All right. I think I need a new motion. May I have another motion? Madam Chair, can we make a motion at Differ? I do, I just think this applicant has some more work to do regarding this proposal, and I'd like to see them pay more attention to the unit mix, the affordability, and the parking. And also the BPD, uh, concerns with the front yard setback and the CFRD design guideline. May I have a second? Okay. Okay. With that, Mr. Rosa. No. Uh, Mr. Shepard. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Rol. Yes. Mr. Lino. Yes. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Uh, the chair also votes yes, the motion carries. Do they need to date now, Tom? Yeah, that's a little sudden. I wanted to do March 28th and be on time as we were offered the address, the concerns. Yeah, I think that works for me. Okay. Now, we're giving two months, Madam Chair. And I think we should just reiterate that some of the, to attempt to address some of the BPD concerns in terms of, uh, front yard setback to address the parking ratio relative to the amount of residents in the unit. And to also, um, uh, to also, uh, look into the basement. That should, that's in the C-front district that knows basically just to be able to pull. To take all of our feedback and to, uh, and to work with the community. To really clarify workforce housing and workforce AMIs. Thank you. We're pulling a good look. Right. So we have March 28th at 1130 AM. Thank you. All right. Next case. Okay. We have BLA 1398031 for 201 West 8th Street. Um, the applicant is seeking to add a roof deck to be used exclusively by unit three. Um, and to improve access to the roof by replacing the alternating trend device with the normal stairwell. Um, size of the roof allows for large setbacks for this deck. Um, their violation is the building height is excessive in terms of, uh, a number of feet. And the applicant is George Moran. Okay. Mr. Ladsie, we're all pretty high schedule. If you could, uh, be, be best that would be appreciate. I will move so Madam Chair. Good morning, Madam Chair. Madam Mr. Moore, my name is George Moran. I'm an attorney with the business address 350 West Broadway and South Boston. This is a proposal for an exclusive use roof deck into a one West 8th Street in South Boston. My client is Tyler Jordan, who owns and lives in the top floor units with his family. And the light way out of reasonable amount of private open space for their use. There are three units in the condominium, which is the three story building and the other two unit owners are supportive of this application. And as our several other director butters, the roof deck would be 144 square feet, 12 feet by 12 feet. With a small walkway to the deck from the point of root access, the deck would be well set into the middle of the building and not visible from any public way. The point of access in the room would be provided from the Georgia since unit by means of a hatch 30 inch visit height and compliance with compliance with code requirements. There's actually an existing hatch providing root access now for maintenance, which would be repositioned. The new hatch would allow for better and safer access from within the unit itself by means of a traditional stairway within unit three as the current access to the roof is by means of a drop down device. The zoning issue here is quite simple. The post roof deck requires a single variance or a roof height violation. The height of the building adult is 40 feet, which is in compliance with zoning requirements under Article 68. This is an MFR multi-family zoning sub district. The issue is that the deck's platform itself rises nine inches above the roof line and the code therefore counts this as building height. The result of this application was cited for a single zoning violation at the height of the deck being nine inches above the roof's present height, which is the maximum allowed by zoning. I'll pause and take any questions the members may have. Thank you. Ms. Becker, are there any questions on the plans? No, no questions. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? All right, here and none. I'm going to move on to public testimony. Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, call anyone with the mirrors of the neighborhood services. At the time, the air is off, so I defer judgment to this board. I don't have a lot of backer information on the public process, but we did receive four letters of support from a blood, that was provided by the proponents rep. I will have that referred to the board. Thank you. Thank you. Just got anyone else to speak? Thank you. Good afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the board. Good afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the board, Panacal DeRong from Kamu, Suplashvin. Can you hear me? Yes, we can. Hi, can you hear me? Yes, we can hear you, Anna. Yes, we can. Hi, everyone. Anna Calderon. Anna Calderon from Council President Flings office. The councilor would like to go on record in a position based on feedback from members and the city signable for the association. We also mentioned a policy in opposition to group leg proposals. Council President Flings has been in record for years in opposition to additional group leg proposals due to their negative impact on the quality of life for neighbors in terms of loud parties and all hours and trash removal issues, which were unfortunately exacerbated by the pandemic. We have been repeatedly expressed to our office for years from our seniors, present with disabilities and families with young children trying to sleep for a school to the next morning. For these reasons, Council President Flings remains opposed to similar group proposals. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the council. Yes, ma'am. Yes, ma'am. Yes, ma'am. Yes, ma'am. Yes, ma'am. Yes, ma'am. Yes, ma'am. Yes, ma'am. Yes, ma'am. Yes, ma'am. Yes, ma'am. Yes, ma'am. Yes, ma'am. All right. Miss Betta-Barranza. Yes. Mr. Schepler. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Wewell. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Next we have the OA 1415266 for 230-232 Silver Street. The applicant is seeking to change the use from two residential units and a pet clinic to three residential units. The other violations include obstreet parking and loading requirements with no obstreet parking required provided and the useable open spaces insufficient. And the applicant is Mary Serio. Thank you. Sorry. Mr. Draco, you know the drill. Thank you. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you. Mr. Draco, Attorney Jeff Drego with Drego and Tiskano with the business address of the Leavenbeak and Street here on behalf of my client Mary Serio. And we also have Scott Traneer from Chuin Company who is the architect on the proposal. This is pretty straightforward. You're looking at the building in this photo. It's 230 Silver Street, 230-232. Just by way of background, this does have two existing apartments above on the second and third floor. The first floor and basement level space had previously been used as a tenant as a pet clinic. They had moved out prior to my client purchasing the building. There is no tenant in there now. There was a pipe that broke prior to them purchasing the building as well that caused a sense of damage to most of everything as we're moved. If you go to the next slide, please. This particular zoning district is an NFR multifamily residential. We felt that changing the occupancy from two units to three was more conducive. The layout, as was mentioned, the first unit would be the largest. It is the newer unit. It's 1,758 square feet. And that would have living space in the basement level that is now shown as exam rooms and office space from the prior tenants. That bottom level would have no better. So it has living room, office, and one bath. Florida sailing height is 9 feet. It has a stairway up to the upper level floor. And that would house the three bedrooms, one bath, and kitchen. That first floor also has the main entrance to the building. And then we go up to the second and third existing units. If you go to the next slide, please. This is a two-bedroom bathroom. These units are 853 square feet, two-bedroom, two baths with a living area. And office and then unit three is a two-bedroom, two baths at 974 square feet with living area and office. Most of everything are called condo or residential rental units in the immediate area. And just to go over the zoning violations there at the minimum, the first one is open space. And that is a pre-existing violation. So we're not changing anything on the building. It was required as 200 feet. We have 37. And then parking. We're not keeping the building. So there's no currently no parking on site. However, we did fail with meeting with the community that having a commercial space would potentially bring a lot more traffic to the area. So if we're going to have a couple of times in drop-offs, then one residential unit. With that, we could pause and answer any questions. The board may have. Thank you, Mr. Grigot. So just to confirm you're staying within the existing footprint. Correct. We're utilizing all existing space. Thank you. Mr. Bettebrasa. You have any questions on the fans? And I can't know the drawings that I have. Thank you. Are there any other questions from the board? Here and none. I'm going to move to public testimony. Is there anyone here to speak in support of opposition? Yes. Madam Chair, members of the board. Conor Newman with the Mayor's Office and Neighborhood Services. This time, the Mayor's Office, like to refer to the judgment of this board. Some background information in the community process. Our office hosted in a butters meeting on September 14th. There were eight residents and attendants. Two of butters had expressed some concerns about parking. We understand the applicant has continued to work with those butters. They ended up achieving support from the Cityside Neighborhood Association. I would love to refer to the judgment of this board. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Newman. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. I'm Akal DeRon from Council President Flinks Office. The councilor would like to go on record in support based on a good community process and work closely with the Cityside Neighborhood Association to reduce the bathroom constant. Second, and third floor to two bathrooms each. Council President Flinks respectfully request that the proponent continue to work closely with their butters, neighbors and civic groups, and quality of live issues, and during the construction phase. Thank you. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Ms. Bedaparaza. Thank you. Yes. Mr. Shepard. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Thank you. Yes. Ms. Weewell. Yes. Mr. Laiyam. Yes. Mr. Stanbridge. Yes. Thank you. Chair votes. Yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you very much. Next, we have B.O.A. 1396904 for 204 West Brookline Street. They're seeking to construct a six foot deep bracket supported balcony off of the second level, and they will convert a window to a door for access. Their violations, their townhouse, Ro House extension into the rear yard, and the applicant is Meg Vadia. Hi. Good morning. My name is Timothy Burke, the architect for the project, and we'll be representing the owners who are also on the call. I have a business address of 142 Berkeley Street in Boston, and Megan Luke are looking to have a little bit of outdoor space for their unit, and we're proposing that we construct a balcony. The next drawing shows the balcony. On the back of the building, there is a very similar one on the third floor. This would be on the second floor right below the existing one, and they've certainly worked with their neighbors on this, and have their support as well. That'd be happy to answer any questions that you may have. Ms. Beduraza, any questions on the plants? This is very minor work. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Thank you. I'll take public testimony. Hi, yes. Good morning. Madam Chair, members of the board, confusedly from Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services, Office Health and Abutters meeting in November of 2022, and no opposition was shown by the Abutters. No concerns or reasoned by the Bible of the Abbot, the neighborhood association at this time would like to defer to the board on this matter. Thank you, Councillor. Good morning, my name is Shawn Members of the Board. I'm a Councillor from Council President Flings office. That Councillor will like to go on recording support. Thank you. Thank you. Any other public testimony? I'm no opposition or reasoned. Thank you, Jessica. With that, may I have a motion? Motion. Motion. Motion. Perfect. Thank you. Motion. Thank you. Motion. Motion. Motion. Motion. Perfect. Second. Thank you. Ms. Beduraza. Yes. Mr. Shepard. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Ura. Yes. Mr. Laila. Yes. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion. Carried. Good luck. Thank you very much. Next, we have BLA 1361465. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Sorry. I'm sorry. Sorry. I'm sorry. oay 336-6777717. sheep. sheep street. I. I. I'm curious. Good morning. I'm Madame Chair. That was the board for the record, Richard. on behalf of the petitioner. I don't share this is a request for a referral to allow for the we noticing of this hearing to address violations that were not originally included the refusal letter. So the I believe that refuse letters issued and then do notice it's sent. I think Mr. Brom has a date like believe was the end of February from the next hearing. Okay. Great. Thank you. Any other motion? They have a motion to defer. Motion to defer. Thank you. Thank you. Ms. Betta-Brasa. Is Ms. Betta-Brasa here? Oh, I see. Okay. Sorry. Mr. Shepherd. Yes. Ms. Valencia. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Muehwell. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Chair votes yes. Motion carries. Do we have that date? Was Muehwell? Oh, five. Do we have a date? Oh, I don't have a file. I'm sure they were going to pull it out. Okay. Grab it. See what they were going to do for it. All right. We'll get back to you on that date. I believe the date has already been set because let me know this. Sorry. I remember. I think it was a lot of was possibly February 28th. It is February 28th and 1138. Yes, sir. Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. Williams. Are there any other deferrals for 1130? 8-10, Mercer Street, the top of page 10. Thank you. I'm going to go ahead and ask for the bill. Boa 1, 3, 6, 9, 8, 3, 8-10, Mercer Street, applicant Mark Little, seeking to erect four story-building and five dwelling units. Morning, Madam Chair. I'm Mr. Boyle. My name is George Maranson. I'm the attorney with the business address of 350 West Broadway and Selvost. And Madam Chair, this is the technical situation to the preceding extension. I think it needs to be re-advertised. Therefore, need a deferral date consistent with the advertising requirements. Thank you. With that, do I have a motion? Motion to defer. Thank you. May I have a second? Yes. Mr. Berrazo. Yes. Mr. Schrepper. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Yes. It means we will. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Thank you. Okay. Chair votes, yes. Motion carries. Do we have a date for Mr. Maranson? Yes. March 14, 11, 30 a.m. Thank you. Are there any other defiles for 1130? Yes. Okay. Hearing none, can we go back to the next case? Yes. So BLA 136 1465 272 East Equal Street seeking you erect a four-story residential building with six unit, with foods balcony terraces, six parking stalls. The parking is on the ground level within an open air garage and is at the rear of the property. The violations include parking less than five feet from the sidewalk line. Up to eight parking insufficient. The use is forbidden. East Boston iPod applicability, conformity with existing building alignment, more area ratio excessive, high excessive in terms of stories and feet, side and very yard insufficient. And the applicant is Mr. Drago. Thank you. Thank you, Madam Secretary. Thank you, Madam Chair, members of the board. Attorney Jeff Drago, with Drago and Tuscano, with the business address of 11 Beacon Street here on behalf of my client and owner, an applicant, Frazier Allen. And we also have Mike Finch, who is the architect on the project from Joyce Street Design. This is a rendering of the new proposed building. As was mentioned, we're proposing to erect a new residential condominium building with say residential units and six associated parking spaces access through the garage shown in this website of the building. This particular zoning district is a 2F2000. We're going to show you some site pictures that shows there's multi-family and three all around the house. But our law size is 6,015 square feet. So we felt the client felt inappropriate, given that it's a 2F2000 or over 6,000 square feet. But the six units was appropriate. Through this process, we actually reduced the unit count from seven units to six. And we're asked by the community to increase our three bedroom count. Our number of three bedrooms went from three to five to allow more family-style sized units. We were also asked to put a dedicated trash in it. We can go to the next slide, please. This just shows the rear of the building. So we wanted to create open space on the bottom level. As you can see, with the patio, that would also host two parking spots off to the right. And then every floor has deck space. One thing and working with our neighbors, we pulled the building in on the third floor. We have a 10-foot rear pullback where the decks are. And then on the fourth floor, obviously, we're pulled back to match that third floor in the rear. But also, we have a 10-foot pullback in the front to reduce density and mass. Just to go over to the next slide, please. Madam Vassar. This is just an area of view. The red area is the existing structure that's there now. And around us, you can see a multi-family as you go down the street along Putnam. And at the end of East Eagle, there are numbers of four-story. And many of the elevated three, particularly the ones to the left of us, are actually higher than our building. Next slide, please. Now we get into the floor plans. So the first floor would house our main entrance. It would have a bedroom area. If you go to the next slide, sorry. Utility room interior trash with sight gluing area. And then it houses our six parking spaces. So if you go to the next slide, two, next slides are two that this is perfect. Two of four of the parking spaces are off to the right. And then two are in the rear of the property. Those are the ones that are exposed. We were asked to keep a one-for-one parking ratio with this project. Our units are mostly upper and lower level. So a unit one on the first floor that houses the bottom or lower level of that unit. That's a 1,656 square foot three bedroom. The first floor would house one bedroom of that unit. And then two baths with a patio is shown. When we go up to the second floor that houses the upper level of that unit one. And that houses the additional two bedrooms and two baths. Unit two is also on that floor. That is the only two bedroom. That's a 1,010 square foot. If you go to the next slide, Jessica, I believe I'll show that. Thank you. That's a two bedroom two bath that is living space in a rare deck. And then unit three is also on the second floor. That is a three bedroom two baths and living space with a rare deck. That unit is 1,137 square feet. And as was mentioned, we now go up to the third floor that houses the pullback in the rare. 10 foot where the decks are located that are exclusive to those units. All of the units in the third floor are by level units. That's units four, five, and six. There are 1,546 square feet, 1,561, and 1,551 square feet respectively. On the third floor, they house open living space, Dan, a half bath, and a rare deck. And then finally, as we get up to the fourth floor that has the 10 foot front pullback and the upper levels of those units. Those are all the bedrooms and the blue bedrooms and two baths are what's located on the top floor. Just to go over the zoning variances requested use because this is six units. So use variance to be required. FAR at 1.56, height where at 38 feet, six inches at four stories. 35 feet would be allowed. Side yard, we do meet it on the left hand side, on the right hand side, on the left we're at three feet. And our rear yard, what's allowed is 24, we're close at 20 feet. And then parking, we would still require under the code would be 9, we are at a one for one parking ratio. What's six, and with that, there was a lot of information. I can pause to answer any questions or if I can. Thank you. That would be helpful. Ms. Ben Baraza, have you had a chance to review the plans? Ben, I've reviewed the plans and the plans are adequate. I would have a question regarding your left side. Step back that is currently at three feet. I see that there's your adjacent, the adjacent building. It seems like the rear is right on the property line. Is that a deck that is right on the property line? For the adjacent building. Correct. So we have some windows proposed along your elevation. So I just want to understand. Yes, it is, we just pulled up the empty empty empty empty empty empty. Actually, if we pull up, I'm sorry, Jessica. The site picture that I had is the aerial field. That should be the third slide. And we, you can see that. Ms. Ben Baraza right here. Are you open to adjusting, adjusting at the rear to have at the supply foot. We're kind of set back from your adjacent property. If that's something that you're suggesting, of course. Okay, great. Thank you. I don't have any further questions. Thank you. Are there other questions from the board? One question to a clarification, please. I believe you said that you were requested by the community to add in three, three, three federal units. And how many are that will that be out of total? So, yes. So five of the six units are three better units. So there's one to two better units. Mr. Stammer, are you? Thank you. Thank you. Other questions from the board? With that, I'll take public testimony. Good afternoon. Madam Chair, members of the board on the site. Benefits of the mayor's office of neighborhood services. I asked House Bill no butters meeting for this project and October of 2022. No butters attended the meeting. The applicant also met with the E.R. Hill Society Association twice. The association voted to support the project with a lot of residents in favor and five in opposition. The association mentioned that building needs more space with trash, with I think Jeff touched upon. They would like to see more storage room and a criminal land. Our office has received 16 letters in support and our office would like to report a judgment to the board. Thank you. Thank you. Any other raise stands? Yeah, we have a few raised stands here. Anyone else who may have left the position office? I would say you're looking to get testimony here as well. Yes, hi. I'd like to ask Jeff to sign the spaces. The apartments, what the light and the work that I. So the they bought the all the four spaces of full size. I'd like to ask the staffs by 20 and then there's two complex faces in the rare. Okay, thank you. Thank you. I met with testimony, we'll start with Darlene and then go to the bill. Darlene, can you say to name an address for the right to please? Hi, my name is Darlene Haley. I'm a 242 East Eagle Street Beat. I am five houses up from where they intend to build this six story unit and I am okay with that. Yeah, I support this project too. I think it's I think it's well thought out. I like the plan. I'm just just two doors down at two seven eighties to go. And I think this would be great for the neighborhood. Wonderful. Thank you. Go ask the bastion. Good morning, madam chair members of the board. My name is Sebastian Para from the Boston Gate. So for councilor Gabriella Caleta and the councilor will like to go support based on the support of the committee. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Madam chair members of the board. Sorry, Madam chair members of the board. Councilor. Councilor Michael. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Ms. Ben Brasa. Do you want to hear PPD's testimony? Yes, yes. Recommendation. Okay. Mr. Afternoon, are you available? It does not seem available. Okay. CPD recommends that now without prejudice proposal, complaints of building that is excessive proponents should consider a structure with reduced height and removal of off-screen practice spots to better accommodate units with the story for that. With that, yeah, I have a motion. Madam chair, I would like to make a motion. I do see along the street that there is a major building that is kind of higher in story with that. I will like to make a motion with for-provise-all to to approve with for-provise-all the first one being that the ground floor parking and layout be reviewed by EPVA and VTD to maximize rear open space. So the second would be to remove the two parking spaces that are rear. We can come back the three are VPE review of four floor massing and exterior materials to distinguish the three time house topology. And then four is to provide a five foot left side yard set back to provide five feet clearance from the applied property. So only at the only at the point. Okay. Do I have a second? Yes. Okay. This is better. Yes. Mr. Shepherd. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Wewell. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. The chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you, Bernie. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. All right. We'll hear her last night 30 and take a break after that. Okay. Next we have the LA 1411319 148 Falcon Street. The applicant is 148 Falcon Street Realty Trust. The applicant is 148 Falcon Street. The applicant is 148 Falcon Street. The applicant is 148 Falcon Street. The applicant is 148 Falcon Street. The applicant is 148 Falcon Street. The applicant is 148 Falcon Street. The applicant is 148 Falcon Street. The applicant is 148 Falcon Street. The applicant is 148 Falcon Street. The applicant is 148 Falcon Street. The applicant is 148 Falcon Street. The applicant is 148 Falcon Street. A secondary argument sufficient. Is that applicant here? Yes. Good afternoon. Madame Chair. Through the members, Richard Lenz. The business address of $245 Somers Street. B spots on behalf of the petitioner. Madame Chair, this project was actually located one street over from the prior representation of the Ego-held section of B spots then the existing photo here on the screen shows the existing conditions of the two two family dwelling. This property has been a nuisance property prior to my client acquiring it. It's currently vacant. There was an extensive amount of clean up that is already gone in the property, including the removal of the Romans and a substantial amount of trash that was in the building itself. Our proposal would change the legal occupancy of this building from Tunis to four units, complete a full renovation of the building, which would operate the life-saving, including the addition of sprinklers. If we jump to the next slide, we can do a quick context overview of the surrounding neighborhood. I would direct your attention, members of the board to the lower right corner, to show what the surrounding context appears to be for this section of Falcon Street. As you can see, we do a lot of Condor Street, which is the street directly behind us. Condor Street has been the focus of new opportunities for development in this section of East Boston. I will also point out that the buildings along Fountain Street are very consistent in size and context for what we're proposing for the renovations at 148 Falcon. Directly behind us is a 12-unit multi-family new building, which was recently built in four stories. As you can see, it's a pretty dense building located directly behind our site. If we can go to slide 8, that will show the proposed rendering for the building that we're looking to. Next slide, there we go, perfect. As you can see here, I believe we have our exactors in the context here as well. We are looking at some of the other buildings along this side of Falcon Street, including the one that's actually four buildings down that was recently renovated, to try to keep with some of the character that we typically see in Eagle Hill neighborhood. Based upon what we typically hear in Eagle Hill neighborhood, the proposed renovations would result in three three-bedroom units. Those are all roughly around 1100 to 12 hour square feet, and then one two-bedroom unit, which you look at at the lower level. Although the violation and refusal letter did indicate basement, I would point down, we see the elevation. That is a full-bottle level, and so we're able to not only achieve appropriate sailing height, but light and air inside the unit based upon its location from the grade at the sidewalk on Falcon Street. If we get scroll down to the next slide, we can get to the, you know, probably go to the next slide after this. So, respect to the site plan. Members of the board, we do see the existing building is already not conforming respect to the side yard setback. We have a 1.3 foot setback on the left side, and about two and a half foot setback on the right. While the prevailing setback requirement district is two and a half feet, because we are proposing multi-family use, that's considered other use on our RL53, and therefore the required setback has actually five feet. Proposed addition does not exacerbate or increase any of the setback, or not conforming setbacks, currently. We do have our structure actually go within 17 feet of the rear property line, and the deck's actually extended a little bit further, so the decks are actually about 10 to the lower 10 feet from the rear property line. I would point out that because this is considered a shallow lot, it does qualify for the shallow lot exception under Article 53, and therefore while the 30 feet is typically required, we're to reduce that, that's about 23 feet as the required setback for this area. And I would point out again that that 12 unit multi-family is located directly behind us, which sits at four stories. If we scroll down to the next, we can walk through the floor plans. So, as you can see here, reading from actually goes from right to left. The lower level basement plan is the two-bedroom unit. We do have some outdoor space shown at the back of the property, and then units, the units at levels one, two, and three are all actually pretty similar in size with the layout of the all-being three-bedroom units. We can go to the next slide, please. We do show a roof deck that is accessed from the rear decks. That roof deck is exclusive to the upper level only, so unit three would have the exclusive rights in that roof deck. Respect to the zoning, this is located at 2,000-2000 district. Therefore, we do require relief for the proposed four unit building. But as I mentioned, there are typical, for example, our number of examples that are typical in this neighborhood, of not only three, and four, but also multi-family sized buildings. We do meet a lot, size and lot width for the district. 2,000 square feet is the minimum or slightly above that at 20188. Then we do meet a lot width at 25 feet. Again, with respect to the side yard, those conditions already present a non-conformative condition at 1.3, and 2.3 both left and right. We do require five foot setback by changing the occupancy from the two to four. However, one point out that the existing right side yard is shared at 2.3 on our side at about a little over two and a half feet. The neighbors property to allow for at least a five foot passageway that comes through the buildings to allow for a rest of the rear property. As I mentioned, our rear yard requirement is about 23.75 feet based upon the exception of our Article 53. The building itself sits at about 17 feet and the decks go within about a little over 10 and a half feet to the rear yard setback. We don't really change it in respect of the front yard because that is already an existing condition with the exception of the addition that we are putting up the third level. We do have about 275 square feet of open space and total that includes the rear yard, the proposed decks and the roof deck. Under Article 53, there is actually no requirement for open space. Some of this, not necessarily something that I think is preferred by the board, we do provide open space that's in the specific to each particular unit in the project. Our FAR will be increased to a 2.39. Point 8 is the maximum of the district. However, this property, again, is already non-conforming with respect to FAR and already exceeds the minimum requirement. So that increases what we're requesting relief for. While our building will be three stories, two and a half stories is what is COVID-19 Article 53, but I believe that the examples that we've shown along that section of Fountain Street, keeps this proposed project with well within the context of what's seen in the immediate vicinity. The High Line is 35 feet in district precisely about that 361, I believe, with the roof deck. And I'll ask about Lisa's parking. Currently, there is no parking requirement for the two units that presently exist as they pre-date the enactment of the zoning code. Article 53 states that were only required to provide parking for the additional units we proposed. So in this case, two additional parking spaces would be all that's required in the zoning. And it is quite practical to introduce a curb class this site and to add any option parking rate. We'll do that. It would be to the detriment of the surrounding area first, well. So with that, I'll stop and answer any questions at the board. Thank you, Mr. Williams. Mr. Bader Brasad, do you have any questions on the plans? I just want to confirm that the roof deck is the roof deck for all units or just for the exclusive, for the four vehicles. Yeah, through the chair, I'm as Bader Brasad, that's not exclusive to unit following me. Okay. And in regards to your left side elevation, you have windows which are mostly the bathrooms and I think I just saw the windows for the bathroom on the left side. And in a hallway to the washer dryer, what's the space from that elevation to the abutting property? I believe Mr. Zacherson is on the call to further him. Yeah, I'm here. Sorry. The question was on the right side. What is the distance to the path? No, I'm on the left side. On the left side. Is the reason you have two and a half three to set back? It's the left side. And on the left side, we have an existing 21 inches. So all the windows you see on the left side are only... I'm sorry, in existing of the 21 inches that you that the structure currently is on. Are there windows there? Yeah, and there are the existing windows there and on the windows plan on the left side. Within that 21 inch zone. Okay. And you're in the abutting property, how close are they to the property line? Oh, that I don't have any fingertips. I think we can go to if I may, we can go to the street view that probably will show the proximity of the existing buildings. Probably back out to if there's slides 4, 5 or 6. That's probably the next one forward. Next one, next slide. There we go. Right, but you're you are... Can you remind me what your existing left side is at back? 1.3 feet. 1.3 feet and you're keeping it at 1.3. Correct. The sort of building, the existing plan of the building that you see here is not intended to change. Right, so that means that you're abutting property probably is two feet away or one foot away? I would say distance between walls. Yeah, this is your animal. I would say probably not two feet correct. Okay, all right, thank you. Next question. Thank you. I think we have another question from the question. I have a question. I might have this wrong, but in my personal notes, I have that side set up. It's 0.3 feet on the left side because of the new construction. Can we confirm that? Well, that's confirmed. In the rear, the addition on that side comes up very close to the property line and has no windows. Can we see that? Do we know if there's windows on the end, but we don't have photos of your adjacent property and to understand if they have windows? I don't have to. Okay, great. Thank you. I have all the things I thought the question was regarding existing building itself. So yes, I believe the addition does come closer, but we could certainly look at that. So I mean, can you explain the reasoning for the addition being left and half of foot to the left lot line? Yeah, we took the back piece and we shifted it to the left side so that we could have windows on the right side and have them be three foot from the new windows, be three foot from the property line. And then the building just got very narrow. If we didn't get it close to the left side. Okay, thank you. Are there any other questions from the board? I'm sorry, go ahead, Mr. Stembridge. Just hopefully go through the what will the basement space be used for? So if we jump to the floor plan, which is that we're at page nine or ten. That is intended to the system for a residential unit, but as you can see in our, you can scroll down further please. I don't think we go to the elevation further down. Next slide. Here we go. So we see on the right hand side the proposed floor layout and that shows the two better unit with the living space. We can jump to the next slide for elevations. Two slides ahead please will show the, here we go. So the difference in height from the side walk down to the rear of the property from the rear most property line is about a 10 and a half foot separation of great difference. And as you can see, do you have the ability to introduce full-size windows on that side as well as a clear walk at the back portion of the property? So does that mean there will be one means of the address? I, Eric, if you could clarify, I thought that there were. Yeah. There are actually two means of the address from this because you can walk out the back through the living room onto the rear deck and enter the common stair at the front of the building. Okay. Okay. Technically because the building will be sprinkled, it could be a single means of the address, but we have two. Okay. May I hear a public testimony? Good afternoon, Madame Chair and members of the board. That's how I've been in such a the mayor's office of the neighborhood service desk. Oh, and as opposed to the batter's meeting for this proposal in August of 2022. A lot of water attended the meeting and stated that parking was very difficult in the area. The applicant also met with the Eagle Hill Association twice. The association voted a nine-sport and nine-in-up position. Those who supported believe the house really needs the upgrade as which you mentioned. There were a lot of comments regarding rodents activity. And those who opposed state about parking is also difficult in the area. At this time, our office would like to look for a judgment to put. Thank you. Thank you. Anyone else? Let the official office? No. I have no additional way to hand. Thank you. Okay. Is Mr. Hampton with us? I am Madame Chair. My apologies for missing the last couple of cases. BPDA recommended to not without prejudice. I focused was more on the rear addition and the increased law coverage. So that was our concern on this case. My only suggestion if the board deems approval that we do a design review would maybe limit the scope of your addition. Thank you. Thank you. With that may I have a motion? I will make a motion to approve with designer view for that rear addition and special consideration to that left side setback. With BPDA did that remove? Yes. Is there a second? We just added and we had another provide zone that there's no building code violation. Is we well? Yeah, I'm controlling that. Okay. Do I have a second? Okay. Thank you. This is Peter Plaza. Mr. Shepard? Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Mr. Vroomwald? Yes. Mr. Lamon? Yes. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Can we take a 15 minute stretch by who break? Thank you. And your turning stopped. 20, 2015, 1235. Okay. Looks like it. All right. We will call Ms. Pettabaza. Here. Thank you. Mr. Shepard? Yes. Okay. Mr. Valencia? Here. Thank you. Ms. Vroomwald? Here. Mr. Lamon? That's almost okay. All Mr. Lamon? You can hear him out, Chair. Yes. Okay. Okay. And I miss Mr. Stembridge. All right. Excellent. Let's proceed with the 1030s. Okay. We have BOA 1405027 for 29R in Street. The applicant is Ivan Hernandez. The applicant is seeking to construct a new two-family townhouse. Because violations are the side yard is insufficient and then more area ratio is excessive. Excellent. Is that the can hear? Can you walk us quickly through your proposal? Good afternoon, Madam Chair. I'm Mr. The Board. We're proposing, actually here with my client, Mike Lambo, who also joins us. We're proposing a townhouse units that two-family townhouse units side by side typical layout on an existing empty lot on an average street, 29R street in Roslanddale. As you see there by the plans, the unit's going to be basically consistent, an unfinished basement space on the in the basement level. First, we'll unit would be a side by side open living area with the manual maintenance from the side parking spots. And then stairs that would lead up to the second floor level, which would be the next slide. On the second floor, it would consist of three bedrooms, two bathroom typical layout master suite with a laundry space. And then against stairs that would lead up to the upper level half-story with an open space up on the half-story level. The back portion of the house would contain a semi-flat roof combination of slope and roof, slope and flat roof area. And then the front would be a gable roof that would be parallel to the street side to side. If you've gone to the next slide, you'll see a plan of the roof there. There would be a dormer facing the front of the house. And then that minor flat portion on the back of the house with the slope. If you proceed to the next slide, the elevation on the upper left side is the front elevation of the house. Again, single-front entrance door objective here was to kind of make it look like a single-family house and try to keep it more in line with the other structures on the street. Up above you'll see the dormer. Right side elevation shows that the right side of the house entrance to the Madroom area. Up above you'll see the gable with dormers. And then again, the rear roof portion. There's stairs from the back of the yard which are shown that platform steps on the right side. And then from porch to the left, which would bring you out to the street. The lower left elevation is the rear of the house or the structure showing the two egresses from the units as second equations coming out to a platform and steps to the backyard. And then the left side or lower right side, which is the left side elevation shows the, pretty much the mirror image of the right side with entrance to the Madroom area, rear and front egresses and then the other side of the dormer. If you did sit with the plans, actually if you go to the next slide, you'll see the site plan here. And as far as side setbacks, front setback, I believe for the most part we're fine. I'm not sure that side setback violation might be because of the two window walls that we're proposing for the right and left side there. But we basically need the front setback, side setbacks for the most part and then the rear setback at the 40 feet. The main issue here is the floor area ratio. And then the side setback, which I believe is for those walls, that's pretty much our proposal. Happy to answer any questions. Thank you Mr. Longness. Mr. Barber also, have you had a chance to review the plans? I have, Madam Chair, the plans are adequate. I just wanted to ask, what do you propose? What do you, what are you proposing potentially in the basement that you're using egress windows? Right now it's going to be unfinished basement space. There's no plan for the basement. It's just to be unfinished basement. The reason for the windows being incorporated is in the future if they want to finish it that they have it set up for that purpose. But okay, what's your ceiling height in the basement? It's seven six minimums. I believe it would be okay. That sounds good. No questions. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Are there any other questions from the board? Hearing none, Mr. Hinton, can you weigh in if you're still here? Thank you, Madam Chair, Madam Support. We've recommended a football with design review. I've never seen window placement as a proviso, but it must be a reason for it. So we're just looking at the scale of goers and window placement, but on board for up to a vote. I hope you. May I agree with you? I thought that proviso didn't make sense to me. I'm glad you called that as well. Thank you. Go on. Thank you. May I have public testimony? Good morning, Chair and members of the board. My name is Ujirin Ojih from the Mayor's Office. We hosted the meeting for 29 orange meet on 15 November. There were about three people that were there. Everyone seemed to be in general support. There were some questions on bills and views whether it be used for family members and some were concerns regarding parking and the aesthetic of the house. But the homeowners said that they would be working to meet those concerns. And my office has received two letters of support in regards to this project. And at the moment, we would like to give forward judgment to the board. Thank you. Are there any other reasons? Okay. Hearing none. May I have a motion? Yes. We'll see. No. We'll see. We can make the sign or do. Okay. And is there a browser in your second? Thank you. Miss better browser? Yes. Mr. Shepard. I missed the yes, but I think you said yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Miss we will. Yes. Mr. Langham? Yes. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Chair also votes yes, motion carries. Good luck. Thank you very much. Appreciate it. Thank you. Next, we have BOA 1417892 for 31 Wellington Hill Street. The applicant is seeking a curb cut for three parking spaces. Their violations include rear and side yard and sufficient as well as off street parking and loading. The applicant here? Yes. Good afternoon. Is Angela Middleton? On behalf of the owners at the Royal Lentay Hills Street we're happy to be here to request a relief from the board of appeals for our request for a curb cut at our owner occupied three family condo building. As you'll see from this rendering, particularly the sketch on the left, there is no curb cut, but the driveway does allow for cars to be parked here, taking cars off the street. Additionally, in each unit deed, off street parking is included. We've gone through the requested process and have received unanimous support from our neighbors, elected officials, and neighborhood associations. At this time, the owner of the third floor unit, Brittany Nichols-Barrows will discuss the community support we received in the benefits in the system. We won't hear from ONS on the community process, so you do not need to talk about that. Can we let us know? So, currently where are they parking? Where are the residents parking? Sure. I'm happy to. Okay. Go ahead, ready. So, I was going to say we're currently parking on the street. We have at times in the past had to park in our driveway due to a lack of street parking, and when we have done that, have been ticketed by the city to the tune of $200 to $300 for parking in our own driveway. I think that it is important to understand the context of our request as well if you don't mind scrolling down to our last slide, seven. Because that shows where the parking is. Yes, I believe it's in that plan on slide two. Yeah, just point that out to us, please. So, if you look here on the left side, this biggest drawing, which is an aerial, it is to the right. And so, it is this lane here that tapers off. And so, that is the driveway, which wraps around to the back of the house, which continues the concrete. This is all concrete. To the right of the driveway, as you're looking in this rendering, is a fence and an open lot that lot cannot be built on. That lot is owned by our neighbor that's behind our house who owns that home. And we have also gotten a letter of support from him to have access to the driveway. So, as far as parking basically in tandem, but triplet along the tunnel, correct along that slimmer. So, they all be at park one. Okay, so is there anyone that's considered a front yard parking? A front yard parking? Yeah, where does the last, where does the car closest to the sidewalk will with that land? I think the parking is at the rear. There's like three spaces at the rear, not at the front. So, that's what I'm trying to get clarification on, yeah. Yeah, so, according to this drying, there are three spaces at the rear. We could certainly park there. However, it's really difficult to get cars out of there. So, you know, we'll go with what we're permitted for, but it's also possible to park in tandem in this driveway here. And though, it's not front yard. If you have three cars parked here in this driveway, the last car actually is still by the house, not by the front yard. Is there a tree? Yeah, go ahead, sorry. Thank you. Is there a tree in the back of the property? And I'm just wondering if you are going to build the parking spaces in the back? Is that tree is parked? Do you have to call the tree? No. So, is that that tree belongs to property for the lay-nate boat? Yes, that's our property. All of the things that you're looking at here in the drying is our property. There's space for three spots behind the house. We would not have to do any construction. There's also spots for three cars next to the house in this driveway with tandem parking. Okay, are there other questions from the board? I would love to hear from Bob, Deniko. That would be great because his hand is raised. Go for it, Bob. I guess Madam Chair, members of the board, Bob, and me, equal VTD. These plants are very poor, and I can't see the three spaces are elected on its drawing. And I'm really nervous about the rear area and quite frankly, I don't think you can fit three spaces there and they'll have very poor maneuverability. And if the board so chooses so, if they want to prove it, I don't like to put it up. Why so? From VTD review, but for more than I can see, there's no space for the left and the right and the left and it makes me uncomfortable. So at this point in time, I'd like to request an aisle. Excuse me. I don't know that we are at the point of denial. I would really appreciate being able to finish our proposal and without having been at the property, it's not really easy to understand what the layout is here. So we're happy to answer any more clarifying questions. Just in terms of the review of the drawings, we do need a survey drawing. The drawings are incomplete to understand what is the curb cut dimension being proposed was the aisle with what are the proportions of the parking space. So drawings are lagging in terms of surveying. How would you suggest that we go about getting those drawings? We've been through this entire process and are now sitting at this appeal having used these drawings throughout. Thank you, me, the professional engineer. Because we cannot see from here any dimensions. That's why I was asking you, were you planning the park on the side? Because I actually couldn't tell there were drop spaces being allocated to the rear. So I think it's difficult to see from here whether you can actually fit the parking spaces. I really have to walk through some of the context around this proposal for the board to understand what we're really dealing with here. If you don't mind, do you have the information about with for us? Can we put a motion forward Madam Chair? I think so, yes please. I'd like to put forward a motion of deferral to allow the applicant to get survey drawings, depict parking dimensions, curb cut with parking spaces and that they also review BTD design guidelines for Austrian parking that's online. Excuse me. Sorry, but may I have a second motion? I'll second that motion. Thank you. Ms. Betapuraza? Yes. Mr. Schappard? Yes. Mr. Valencia? Mr. Valencia? So, um, Chair, I wasn't able to. Yes. Thank you. Ms. Muewell? Yes. Mr. Langham? Yes. Their stomach. Yes. The Chair also votes yes motion carries. Ms. Muewell, we could provide them with the date. So basically we need better drawings that have the information and the dimensions, et cetera, that we did that. I don't understand. Can I just, you know, we've been through this process for months and actually years. This is our second time going through this and so to wait for nearly two and a half hours to get to this point, I would just appreciate two minutes of your time to really have an understanding of what it is that we need to do in the context of our proposal. We understand that however we, we not, we will not be able to make a vote without the information that is provided and so it would make more sense for you to go back to provide that information and then we can hear the proposal in full. I already made, we've already made a motion and it's already carried. I understand that's the case. I understand. I understand. No, you surely do not understand. Please give me two minutes to speak with you and the board about our proposal and let us ask our questions so that we can get this curve correct approved. We've sent hours on this and asking you for two minutes of your time. That is not unreasonable request. Madam Chair, we have March 28th at 1130 available. I would also suggest the applicant considered digital copy of the plan for creepers and the plans make it difficult to read. Thank you. Computers can zoom. You can zoom in and look at things right? You have the ability to look at whatever vote we've indicated is that there's insufficient information on the plans currently. We so appreciate the information, the context that you want to provide but without the basic information, we would be unable to approve at this time. So I think we're trying to offer the opportunity to go back and provide that information so that we can make an informed decision. So many questions. Sorry. Yes, Ms. Bervazza. Madam Chair, I make a recommendation that the applicant contacts Jessica and Jessica can provide the ONS, Niva Lazon and clarify with Jessica and the ONS Lazon, what we're specifically requesting, which is a survey drawing of the proposed parking. And whose cost? Thank you. We need to move on. I'm so sorry. Please contact ISD and Jessica directly. Next case, please. Next, we have BLA 1345655 for 11. Spring, Garden Street. The applicant is Chow Nugin. Sorry, I know I probably put you at that. And the applicant is seeking to demolish and existing single family home and erect a fourth story, two family home. And their violations include the law area. Is insufficient, a lot within sufficient, frontage is insufficient, floor area ratio is excessive. High is excessive in terms of stories and feet, usable open space of sufficient, side yard and sufficient and rear yard and sufficient. Is that happening? Yes, good afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is Kevin Cloutier. I'm an attorney representing the applicant and owner, Chow Nugin. I have a business address of 1990s center street in West Roxbury. And we're also joined by the project architect, Gavin Priscoll. And if I can just take the, quickly take the sort of the high view and then pass over to Gavin to talk the design, we believe this is the next one opportunity for the board to approve this project, which would allow for an additional single and additional dwelling unit on spring garden street door access here. But without increasing any off street parking, spring garden street is a pretty tight road. It's one way and parking is certainly one of the primary issues there. And I just provided, if you would say on this first slide for now, this shows obviously the home that we're seeking to demolish and then to create a two family four story home. It would include both units with a three bedrooms and two and a half ass and they would each be 1,771 square feet. And again, we would have sufficient off street parking in a first floor garage area. And the photo on the right just gives a little bit of the area context. With that, I'd pass it over to Mr. Driscoll to talk the plans and I'll briefly touch on some of the zoning and mitigation factors. Thank you. Thank you, Kevin. Please go to the next slide. This is just a copy of direct debuts that we have letters from Google's work. Next slide, please. There's just some pictures for context on the left-hand corner. You can see picture of the existing home. There is a shared driveway that is needed not to be allowed to be parked in on the bottom of the corner that's the rear of the property. On the bottom right corner, you can see the rear part of the property as well. And that on the upper right corner picture, you can see the existing home on the right of the patient. You can go to the next slide. The footprint of the building is staying the same left to right. We are extending it to the rear end of the front. The, like I said, the total square footage is 3,000, 542 square feet of living space on a lot that's 2,175 square feet. And we are in a 2F-5000 zone with a 1.630 FAR. We are proposing a mere image units from the front of the rear. I'm in go to the next slide, please. This is the official park plan showing the project on the next slide. And that here is the existing condition plan. If you want to go to the next slide, please. You can see here on the left side is the garage plan. We do have an oversized garage because of the renewability. This is 186 by 203. We know it's going to be tight, but you can get the two cars in the air because the bring on the street is such a small street with only parking on one side. And during the neighbor process parking is a big aspect of it. So we wanted the two units to have two off from parking. If you go to the next slide, we'll just run through plans quickly. On the first floor, we're going to have a living room, kitchen dining, 600 square feet per unit. Third level is going to be the master bedroom, master bath, reached the unit, also 600 square feet. And if you go to the next slide on the upper level, it's actually stepping back, slightly six from the front of the building. We're going to have two bedrooms with a bathroom top there. And we are also pulling it back five foot six from the rear of the property as well. There's a roof plan on the left side. If you can just go to the next slide, you can turn the elevations. On the upper right corner, you can see the frontal elevation on the spring and garment street. On the left side is where the sheer drive of the floor is. You can see from the elevation that we put that entry draw out the front to get the the same aspects of the other buildings on the street with the representation of the three family home, the same characteristics. On the left hand side, you can see the there's two oversized doors, one for each unit, the spedics of happy two. The oversized that the cars can have remove the ability to get off into those doors as box. And then on the bottom right in corner, you can see the rear elevation and then on the bottom left hand side is the right elevation, which we went out five foot because it's the distance from the property line. And if you go to the next slide, on the right side, we're going to chose the view from the spring and garment street. And I can give you the answer for she missed. And if I can just address some of the zoning issues, because of the size of the law, which is 2,135 square feet and a 2F 5000 zone, by virtue of having an ERT, which is we're looking to demolish and build something new, but there are already a number of automatic violations that are baked into that, including light area, frontage, side yard and rear yard. Though I suggest the size of this law is not abnormally small or inconsistent with a lot of the lots in the surrounding area. So some of those zone of violation, again no matter what we wanted to build in this place, those violations automatically be triggered. And again, this is going to be an owner occupied two family, Mr. Winnis, lived in this property for over 20 years and has been a Boston resident for 30, his daughter would be graduating, you must Boston soon would likely be moving into that second home. With respect to some of the issues that have been raised during the committee process, which began in 2019, in fact, this is the fourth iteration of the project. Actually, this is a great slide to stay on. Regarding the height, as you can see, that fourth story has been set back from both the front and the rear to avoid any of that additional massing onto either Spring Gardens or to the rear. So the top of the third story is actually 28 feet. The top of the fourth story, which again is set back and out of the line of sight for Spring Gardens, is 37, which is only two feet higher than the allowable 35 feet. And if you look at the top left, in fact, those triple deckers, which are very common with this neighborhood, with that sort of raised little parapet at the top, essentially the top of our proposed building would essentially be equal to that just to the right of it, again at about 37 feet. And secondly, the other primary issue being with the parking, we did engineer that parking, if actually you want to go back to slide number seven. We do have, I mean, we require one-off street parking per unit. We do show two there practically. It probably be one car and I either garage, but the single parking space would certainly be sufficient. I think two would be tough. We're just showing that we've engineered that two can get in there, but we are providing one off street parking, legal off street parking spot per unit, and we suggest that we certainly mitigate one of the primary concerns with any sort of redevelopment or development on Spring Garden would be parking congestion. And so for those reasons, we suggest that this is a, I think, a great opportunity to allow an additional dwelling unit owner occupied without adding to any further off street, or on-site on-street parking congestion. And if the board would entertain, I know Mr. Wynn is available to speak if they'd like to hear from the owner about this project. And why he wants this stuff. Thank you. Could you answer a couple of questions? One is there an existing curb cut and also can you remember our bedrooms for each other? Yes. There is an existing curb cut and it is needed that no one's allowed to park in the existing driveway. The neighbor on 13 has an parking space in their rear. So that would be an existing curb cut and existing driveway. It would be high, no one would be allowed to park there. And these three bedrooms, two and a half baths each unit. So it's all six bedrooms. Thank you. Ms. Bethe-Bras, I have the address to review the plans. I've had a chance to read the drawings and I'm just looking at the neighborhood and the neighborhood district is aligned with many two stories and three story buildings. I don't necessarily see a four story building on on the street. On nor do I see the typology of having enclosed garage on the side elevation of the building. I just wanted to read that out. But the drawings are adequate. You know, so I guess the question would be why, you know, why are you requesting a relief if you can do you can do it too family by right. But do you need to go four stories? Well, we for that reason, I mean, this is all driven by that off street parking option. Again, I mean, I think it's almost impossible to try to put it too family on spring garden without off street parking. I mean, there's just no room on that street. This is an issue that was raised from start to finish by residents. So the whereas at the level we are, because I believe, I don't think you can do it too family without with off street parking in this space. It's just not it's not practical to be able to do that. So that really drove our decision to put those off street parking spaces. And I know the off street parking seemed to be pretty well received by the you know, by the by the community. And obviously all the immediate butters are support this project for those reasons. I think Bob has his hand out. Mr. Blinkup? Yes, I'm not the most madam GM members of the board like to meet with you. Again, I don't see the parking spaces reflected on the parking storage area. And that's important because according to the BGP regulation, it requires 50% of the parking spaces be 8.5 in the other half can be 7 by 18. But more importantly than that, our order is important is I need to see the spaces reflected on the plan, which is what we want to do a little all about. But I'd like to ask for a right now, provided that they have to buy BTD review. That's okay with the board. Not you, really? Thank you. Are there any other questions from the board? I'm sure I have a couple of questions. So is that a shared easement between these two buildings? Yes, it's a common use easement allowing both property owners to pass and repass without obstruction. So yes. And what is the width of that drive aisle for easement? It's a one foot six and then we actually inset the building on that first floor. So there's 133. Okay. I have another more questions. Thank you. Is there any other questions from the board? So I have a question on the two feet. So since your violation is only two feet, are you able to do it without the two feet? I'll leave that to Gab and I think we've looked at that every which way we can. And we already went. We started at 42 and we're down out of 37. Yeah, I think we can go down to that. We did pull it down as much as possible, but with the regulations, but getting the cars on that first floor, obviously having the sufficient head height and the actual spaces for a living space we did. I think you just go down to the one section of the outpatients. We did bring down the seamy lights for each floor with, you can just do that. You can see the height's part sure. With we have a food too, which is going to be tight for parking on the first floor, if it's six in the first floor, and then on the other level, so we do have some for touch. So there is a little bit of work on them, but the sun for the six minimum, but we're just having obviously considered the structure and all that other stuff to make sure that we can try and get down to the 35, but it would be very close just as we go through everything. We do the leave a little bit of work with the sun for 10, so depending on the structure. Understood. Thank you. Are there any other questions from the board? Now is Mr. Hampton still with us? I know he had to leave soon. I will just read his recommendation into the BPDAs recommendation into the record, and then we'll take public testimony. BPDAs recommends approval with proviso that plans be submitted to BPDAs for design review approval. With that, let me take public testimony. Good afternoon Madam Chair and Members of the board. My name is Ross Cochran with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. At this time we'd like to defer judgment to the board. The applicant at 11 Spring Garb and Street has completed their community process within a butters meeting on September 7th of last year, and ultimately the local civic group Columbia 7 Hill voted to oppose the project after a close vote. We'd like to defer the board to the board's judgment at this time. Thank you. Madam Chair and Members of the board, Joe McGatrin, City Council Frank Baker's Office would like to go in opposition of the applicant today. Thank you. Thank you. Is there any other raised hands, Fiske? I have no additional raised hands at the moment. Okay, with that, may I have a motion? I make a motion, Madam Chair, that I make a motion to approve with proviso that plans should be submitted to BPDAs in both most of the protests in the Parliament for design review. Can you do I have a second? I'll second. Is better for us? Yes. Mr. Schupper? Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Is we well? Yes. Mr. Langham? Yes. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Chair also votes yes. Emotion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Next, we have BOA 1386782 at 3381 Washington Street. Applicant is we serve safely, Inc. They are seeking to install a walk-in refrigerator. The violations are not conforming. Use change, change off street parking and sufficient, rear yard and sufficient. Is that a potent with us? I do have a stand here once. I'm sure you're going to make you a panelist. I'm more successful when you introduce yourself. And then make yourself. You might be on mute now, but once you unmute yourself, be able to introduce yourself. Hello, Sergio speaking? Yes. Yes. Hi. Yes, my name is Sergio and I'm a consultant for the Council of Community and I'm a consultant for the Sunkey S. Bakery. And we are proposing to put in a walk-in cooler in the rear with a a store, a dry storage unit as well on the back. We've already gone through the Jamaica Plane community process. And we've gotten their blessing on that. We've also talked to our butters as well about the project. And we haven't received any opposition. Our walk-in exterior cooler is going to be, is not going to be adjacent to the building. There is going to be a space in between. I think one of the violations was that we were within eight feet. We've actually pushed it back as well. So we actually are within that distance from the building. We currently have, you can see there, there is three parking spots where the car is, where the car is located is the second parking spot where that black car is behind the one of the owners. Phillip, we have two spots that we do use for 15-minute parking for our customers. So we, for the residents of the building, including us, we have three parking spots. We're looking to use one of the parking spots to be able to put in this dry storage container and an exterior walking cooler. We will have a walkway in there. We will be eight feet apart. And one of the violations is that we would need sufficient parking. We do have two left over. And we do have the possibility of having two more on the side of the building as well for a total four if necessary. And then the other one is going to be that is the residential area. And we are in commercial business. This space has been located there for a number of years. And it used to be a pizza shop before us. We've existed there for roughly almost five years. And we do need, this is the container. And we do need some additional space, luckily the pandemic are cheap. We did drive and we did a very good amount of business, which is why we're requirement. Some additional space to be able to hold our dry goods and our refrigerant products. We have received approval from the health department to be able to house our products inside of this exterior walking cooler as well. Thank you. Yep. Okay. Well, this is this proposal is the milleness to me. Are there any questions from the board? Madam Chair, I have I did not receive any site plan or drawings. Jessica, do you have a site plan on file for the applicant? Yes. So that we can see which parking spaces is being given up for this dry exterior storage. Okay. And there should be another plan in there with some more details as to where the walking cooler is going to be located. Do you have the parking spaces, line drawings as well or no? Do you have the parking spaces demarcated on that plan? Okay. And there should be another plan on there. I don't think the parking spaces are marked off. But there is marked off where the walking cooler would be located. There should be another plan that we submitted. Okay. And Madam Chair, we heard that they received support from the of letters. Is that correct? We will hear from public testimony in a minute. Yes, further. Thank you. In other questions. Okay. With that, maybe we hear public testimony if all of this is on. Yes. Madam Chair, members of the board, call on our newman with the Mayors Office of the Neighborhood Services. The sound of Mayors Office looks to defer to the judgment of this board. Some background information on the community process. Our office host on the butters being on November 1st, are the applicants brought their proposal to the community and address questions and concerns from the butters. They went on to secure overwhelming community support, receiving support from the Jamaica Plain Neighborhood Council, and the JP Zoning South Committee. We believe that they should let us support to this to this board. With that, we'd like to defer. Thank you. You. Any other raised hands, Jessica? Ms. Weiral, do you have those letters on file? Yes. We have support from the Jamaica Plain Neighborhood Council, but we also have a letter of opposition. It's only one though. Thank you. And I'll just read BPD's recommendation, approval with proviso that plans shall be submitted to BPD for design review with special attention, and the discreeting and buffering of the container. Okay, with that, may I have a motion? Madam Chair, I'd like to put for a motion of approval with the, with a proviso to provide a survey drawing, noting the parking spaces and the size of the container, the walkway, and where the screen and buffer end would be to the proposal. I may have a second. Is that again? Ms. Betar-Baza? Yes. Mr. Shepard? Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Ms. Weiral? Yes. Mr. Langham? Yes. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. And Chair also votes yes. Emotion carries. Good luck. Thank you. We'll be going. Um, you know, there's a couple of cases where you call them whether. Oh. We don't have this one on the agenda. I don't know. Oh, it's the next one. I don't know. So we have a order. Okay, so should we go? You go. Okay, I think that's fine. One second. That's a block that I think. Okay. We have a BLA 1333102. Oh, which. This was your order. All right. Let's go with button. Which is that is the order. Um, so we have BLA. Oh, back to button. What? One for zero nine five four three. One ten button. What? And then we have BLA 141140. One 1118 button would be applicant is Shaila White. And these are companion cases. So their violations are. Reconstruction extension of a non-conforming building. Off street parking and parking. No, no. Residential, dimensional regulations excessive FAR. Is it sufficient front yard setback? It's sufficient side yard setback. Number of stories is exceeded. I as well. Yeah, that's what you want. Let me just make sure there's nothing new on the other one. Okay. And they are seeking to combine one 10 and one 14 button would and to newly created a lot to be known as one 10 change occupancy from a three family dwelling to multi family with eight units and structure for a story, addition to existing structure. And then they are proposing eight off street parking and two ancillary parking spaces that are associated with one 18 button would. And these lots are all in common ownership. Thank you. Is Ms. White? Please. Hello, Madam Chair. Thank you. Thank you. My name is Mike Ross. I'm here on behalf of my associate attorney, Shaila White. Law from a principal bell. I am here with architect Peter Venkow and Madam Ambassador. Maybe just if you could put us on page A002 so I can explain to the board why we're here. Madam Chair, members, we are this is returned to the board. We were before the board on March 30th, 2021. The board rejected that prejudice, the application on the grounds of the ground floor unit, the bottom floor unit was subterranean. There were headhouses on the property. There was a roof deck on the proposed project and there was maneuverability issues in the rear of the project. We've since removed this subterranean condition of the ground floor unit so that they are now ground floor units. We've removed the headhouses, we've removed the roof deck and we've removed the parking space to allow for greater maneuverability in the back. This page here gives you a really good sense of what we're trying to do. The White House is the existing house that will remain. It's currently a triple-decker. It's 110 button wood and what we would be proposing is building a mirror of 110 on where one 14 is. It would be very similar in fact to that brown house that is to the left of that project. As you can see we will need to raise the existing one family structure that's currently at one 14 but wood. Matt Asher, if you go back one page I can show you the site plan. Well let's find that site plan. Let's go back a little bit more. Let me talk about this. Here we go. I can show you the site plan. Here you can see the combined 110 and 114 button wood proposed in the lower left hand corner of that site plan and then there you can see the eight parking spaces in the rear behind 110, 114 button wood and those two accessory parking spaces would be behind 118 button wood. And this was also changed and we worked through with our engineers, Harris-Den Hudson, to create maneuverability conditions that we've since floored to BTT to share with them as well. If we scroll now back, Matt and Matt, or downward I can just quickly take you through the layouts. We don't need to do that unless you want to get back to the maneuverability. Let's go a little bit further down. I'll take you floor by floor one more and investor. One more actually. Remember investor. Here we go. So we're just going to kind of build. These are all nine floor high floors floor plans. I'll show you the elevations in a second but this is this is your average floor plan. So this is the ground floor. As you can see it's two units each with two bedrooms and two baths. The unit sizes range from 1100 square feet to 1200 square feet and then investor you can take us to the second floor on the next slide and you'll see again same configuration. In this case there will be a bay. You can go further to the third page, the third floor and then investor. We're now in the third floor and then finally we're on the fourth floor one more slide and that's the eight units. The elevations will give you a better sense if you go down one more. Bam and bowser passed the roof plan. Here we have the elevations. The upper two or the side elevations. The lower left is the rear elevation and then the lower right end corners. The front elevation and if you go down one more slightly more detail and I'll point out this is a good slide just to point out a couple things. So as you can see there is still access to the roof but that is purely mechanical access. There is no roof tech up there and so in that case the hatch is allowed because it's not being used for occupancy. You can see the ground floor condition is now properly a ground floor condition and not a subterranean. It's only one and a half feet depressed. As I mentioned it's a nine foot ceiling height on all four floors. Maybe just finally met him chair. I just quickly just hit on the zoning release. They were they were mentioned by the secretary but because we're expanding a three family and a two family district that creates the violation. There is the the ancillary parking the two spaces behind one eighteen. There is the multi-family in a two family district. There is the maneuverability still remained as a violation. I think we're close there however. FAR were at 1.49 and at 0.5. District like many of the properties in this neighborhood. The front yard setback calls for 15 where at eight feet. We do comply with one of the side yard setbacks but together side we do not. High wise we just get there but the number of stories we exceed of course the 2.5. I'll pause the airman chair and see if there are any questions or might be one more slide but after this you might want to take a peek at but nope that's that. Okay I'll stop there. Thank you and on me have missed this is this a partnership or rentals. We are in to do a home ownership here condominiums. Thank you. Mr. Madder Baraza have you had a chance to remove the plants? Madam Chair I have agreed to plant. I have no questions. It's pretty clear. The applicant has made some concessions from previous hearings so I'm happy to see that. Thank you. Are there any other questions from the board? I have a question Madam Chair. I'm Mr. Ross. Can you talk me through how the parking spaces are assigned is it one per unit and what will happen for one 18 button was parking? Sure. Madam Basher if you get back to that site plan that's a way in the beginning that might be the best way to do it. So we actually exceed the required number of parking spaces because it's a pre-existing non-conforming on the triple decker we're really only adding five additional units and in this district they ask for 1.25 for each new additional so that would that would put us at 6.25 but we're adding eight four one 10-1 114 so those eight would serve that building and it would it would be deeded according to whatever condominiums docs are worked out. One 18 would preserve two parking spaces but again that's a previous non-conforming building and in fact it's a triple decker which doesn't well that's a relevant it's a pre-existing non-conforming building so we've created two parking spaces and isolated parking spaces for one 18. Okay thank you. Thank you. I'm sorry Mausher there will be 10 parking units and 10 parking spots for 8 parking units. 8 parking spots for 8 units and then two parking space for the triple decker where none existed previously. Okay thank you. Thank you. Are there any other questions from the board? Okay Mr. Demiko. Yes Madam Chair members of the board of the meep of BTC day. I like the discussion that's a parking design the Ross and the adjustments were made and they'll be one record to report this current design. Thank you. Thank you. Okay Mr. Harpton has left so I will read his recommendation from BPDA which is approval with proviso that plans be submitted to BPDA for design review. With that let me open it up to public testimony. Good afternoon Madam Chair members of the board my name is Ross Carco and the mayor's office of neighborhood services. At this time we'd like to defer judgment to the board. The applicant has successfully completed the community process within a butters meeting on November 17th of 2020 and they with some reservations from the Cormac Civic Association they pass McCormick's vote as well. At this time we'd like to defer to the board's judgment. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. President. With more than one chair members of the board this is mine up for as per the percentage of the parking position. Thank you. Madam Chair members of the board, Joe McGebran City Council, Frank Baker's office. At this point we'd like to hold and reserve support of this project although we're not necessarily against the project. We do have neighborhood concerns regarding the maintenance and good community outkeep of this applicant's other product, other properties in the area. So at this point we would like to reserve our support. Thank you. Thank you. Just give are there any other reasons? Okay with that may I have a motion from the board? Madam Chair I would like to put forward a motion of approval with the PTA design review paying special attention to the exterior material for the project. Thank you. May I have a second? Yes. Mr. Berraza. Yes. Mr. Shepard. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Mewel. Yes. Mr. Langham. Is Mr. Langham? He's here, Madam Chair. Yes. Thank you. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Okay and the Chair votes yes. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you everyone. Have a nice day. Okay now we can get to work bill. So it is DOA 133310246 Woodville Park the applicant is Derek Hobson. They are seeking an additional dwelling unit conversion from two to four and in existing two family duplex basements will be reconstructed into two bed apartments. Their violations include use regulations, dimensional regulations for the law area, for additional dwelling units as insufficient, for area ratio excessive, usable open space, insufficient, rear yard, insufficient, off street parking, insufficient. That's what we have. Thank you. Thank you. Is Mr. Hobson with us? Yes. Yes he is. Can you hear me? Yes we can. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon Madam Chair. Members of the board. I'm Derek Hobson and this renovation consists of side by side firewalls operated duplex. I built this property in 2013 and are looking to increase the area of this project of this building. It's three F5000 proposed additions will not increase the building's exterior footprint. The FAR will increase from 0.9 which this currently is a 1.1 for the open usable space. I will add a 6.544 rear deck. It's also a dead end street which I grew up on myself. Where the kids play like in the street, there's a park behind the street or mall and street. I have the really odd minimum is 30. 30 feet. I have roughly 22 feet which wins into 16 and a half feet. I have 13 feet and width by 32 feet and length, which accommodates a tangent park and for two cars on each side. The finished height in there from the ceiling to floor would be 7.25 feet. This building that I had since 2013 I've been predominantly used for low income. If I'm able to add these units here, it would be dedicated to low income. Are you currently residing there or do you plan to? No, so when I came up with the idea to do this project, I looked and I saw the additional dwelling units. I initially filed this application as an ADU but because I don't live there, I had to revise it to occupancy change which I ended up doing. Okay, thank you. And then you reviewed the plans, Ms. Betapraza? I have Medicare and the Giants are adequate. Are there any questions from the board? I have one question. Yes sir. With these units, how many units are going to be low income? All of it. It's 100% low income now. And if I'm able to do it, it will continue to be 100% low income. I have partnerships with Boston Housing, Queensie Housing and Metro Housing Boston. So any property that I own is low income. Thank you. Welcome. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. And Mr. Hampton is not here so I will read BPDA's recommendation which is approval with the proposal that plans be submitted to BPDA for design review with attention to entry and egress side parking and curb cuts and red doorbed dimensions. With that, may I take public testimony? Mr. Pryce? Thank you, Madam Chair. Members of the board, it is with Brian Hosef or this project that is a graduate from our apprenticeship and printing program. He is building a license with us and his here in the Department of Community is a beautiful big thank you. Thank you, Mr. Pryce. Are there any other raised hands? Okay, hearing none, I'm going to entertain a motion from the board. I'll make a motion to approve with the proviso plans to move to the BPDA for a design review with attention to entry and egress sidecarping curb cuts and the rear door. I have a second. Second, okay, thank you. Ms. Bada-Boraza. Yes. Mr. Shepard. Yes. Mr. Ralanzia. Yes. Ms. Wewell. Yes. Mr. Langel. Yes. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. The chair votes yes. Motion carries. Good lap. Mr. Hopson. Thank you. We're seated. Next we have BOA 127 2203 of the addresses five Parker Street. The applicant is young page G. The applicant is seeking to construct a three-story addition to the left of the existing building and convert and existing one family into a three family. The violations are around the roof structure, restrictions and the addition is changing the profile of the existing reply as a note. Thank you. Is it Mr. Drago who's here? Well, please. Yes. Thank you, Madam Chair. Members of the board. Attorney Jeff Drago with Drago and Tuscano with a business address of 11 Beacon Street here on behalf of young and representing five Parker Street in Charlestown. This is a rendering. I don't know what we're looking at. The project was to be completed and as was mentioned, we're changing the occupancy by way of additions from a one family to a three unit building. These would be condo units. This would also create arcing at the first floor, the first level of the building and lower level as it would go down through the slopes. So there would be three interior parking spaces that would go along with those units. Just if we could go to the next slide quickly. This particular district is a 3 F 2000 and our lot size is 3128 square feet. Just looking at the composition, the building directly to the left of us is a three unit building. To the right of us is a one. Most of the buildings up and down this corridor are either two or three. All of our units proposed, both of them, all three of them are three bedroom and two bath. Just to go over the layout and if you go to the next slide. So the lower next slide please, I'm sorry. The lower level has three parking spaces in it and you can see that on the right hand side with plenty of maneuverability, a 10 foot maneuverability area in that parking level. Then when we go up to the first floor that would house unit one and that would be a three bedroom two bath, 1,354 square foot unit. Second floor would house unit two. That's a 1,400 n square foot three bit to that unit. And then the third floor would house unit three 1,000, 427 square foot three bedroom two bath unit. If we go to the next couple of sides, we do have roof deck. We're proposing now to be exclusive right here at shown left. That's 418 square feet and there's no headhouses access via hatch. That is exclusive to units three. We have managed to keep this building almost completely zoning compliant. There is just the roof structure restriction violation and that is due to the fact that we are raising the roof line and adding that roof deck on top. I can pause for any questions that the board may have. Thank you. Appreciate it. So just to clarify, you're adding parking where there was an unparked? Correct. Yes. We're going under that bottom level, the lower level for the parking spaces that would go into units. But we are keeping the bill. Yeah, thank you. Are there questions from the board? I have one question. Would these units be sold as condos? Correct, yes sir. Thank you. What's the minimum curb cut that you're proposing? So it's a 10 foot curb cut of Miss Baraza, but there is an existing curb cut now on the left side that we are it will close up but we are opening a new one for this new parking scheme. No further questions. Any other questions from the board? One question. One question from the board. Yes sir. So clearly parking for one building is possible for building? There's only one building proposed, Mrs. Temperidge, we're keeping the existing structure and then by way of addition just adding the new units. Thank you. Okay, and I will read BPD's recommendation which is approval with provisor that plans be submitted to BPDA for the design review, drawing set is incomplete and design review should give special attention to front where it's set back in relation to adjacent structures and the impact of the project on the public realm. With that I will take public testimony. Madam Chair, members of the board, Sean Brin, Charles Sonlies, on with the Mayors Office of the Neighborhood Services. The applicants run through the community process and the brothers meeting was held on November 15th. Our office received no letters of support or opposition so with that we just started to support. Yes sir. Is there any other testimony? Okay, hearing none, I'm going to entertain a motion. Madam Chair, I'd like to put for a motion to approve with BPD and BPDA design review on the front yard set back in relation to adjacent structure and the amount of parking spaces. Yes. Do I have a second? Second. Thank you, Ms. Betapraza. Yes. Mr. Shepard. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Thank you very much. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Thank you, the Chair votes yes, motion carries. Good luck. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Okay, next we have BOA 136-9296 for 131 Princeton Street. You're seeking to change occupancy from a two-family dwelling to three and to renovate a rear addition. There are violations include the East Boston iPod. The three families is forbidden. Four area ratio is excessive side yard and sufficient roof structure restrictions. Off street parking is insufficient. The height is excessive in terms of stories and feet in the rear yards and sufficient. The applicant is Abelar Cola, but it looks like Mr. Drago is representing them. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I'd like to go go from a two-family residential building to a three-family residential dwelling. This will also include renovations in particular of the exterior and also to erect an infill the rear of the property for an addition. to the third floor. The height of the building is three stories, 36 feet night inches, that will remain. We agreed also to keep as we worked with the community the Mansire roof design this is in the store of Eagle Hill and like Ed mentioned it would basically mirror the building to the left interior with three separate floors. The bedroom couch is to point out now is actually because it's laid out as a two family it's got a six bedroom unit and then it has a three bedroom unit so the unit count would actually remain the same even though we're proposing to add to change the occupancy from a two to a three. If you can go to the next side slide please I'm head of the ambassador. This is just our survey it shows the area back on the left where the addition would go if you could go to the next slide and then we get into the the plans on the next slide please. And so the plans would use the basement level as a duplex unit and so that would house a media room office and laundry area that would be a 1765 square foot three bedroom that would connect to the upper level of the first floor and that would have total three bedrooms and two bath. We go up to the if you keep going through the slide deck we go up to unit two and that is 1110 square foot three bedroom two bath and then finally unit three would be a thousand seventy five three bedroom two bath. Most of the violations are pre-existing. One we are creating obviously is use we are going from a two two a three our FAR our height side yard that that is remaining the same although it is pre-existing violations that were triggered we are being triggered for parking we are a walking distance to what island T station but we are not because we're keeping the building we can't create any parking on this site and then because we're raising up that level we have a structural restriction as well as I mentioned most of the buildings that immediate area are three unit buildings including the one we're connected to and to the right of us and we also I know submitted letters of support from our neighbors as well I can pause to answer any questions. Mr. Pregel are you following the same I guess format as you're adjacent property is that how they're achieving the three units? So yeah their units are smaller though just we are adding an addition and part of the back area but it's going to have the same layout so right now as opposed to having you know a large box of six benedron and three over different levels this would have this would include the basement of any each level would be separated with the addition. And are they doing the same thing using the basement as liable space? I believe so. Okay. Are there questions from the board? I have one question. Yes sir. The basement unit what is the height from the floor to the ceiling? Seven foot sticks Mr. Langham and it's only additional space so it's only houses the meeting room office and laundry there no bedrooms now on that basement. Okay thank you thank you. Is it possible to walk out from the office and meeting room? It seems like there's an alleyway or is it or is the equestrian internally in the stairs leading to the other? No that you can get out. Okay so there's two means of equal rights. And the building will be sprinkler on this barocad. Thank you. Other questions from the board? Okay we'll read the PDA's recommendation and take public testimony. PDA recommends denial without prejudice proposal contemplates an addition that is excessive in a lot area coverage and reduces musical open space. Proponents should consider a project that allows for the preservation of musical open space in the rear yard. With that may I take public testimony? Good afternoon Madame chair members of the board. This is the cabinet's mayor's office of neighborhood services. Oh and as host it in a buyer's meeting for this proposal on September 2022. A current resident of the building in a butter joined the call to express concerns regarding possible displacement. The applicant also met with Eagle House of the Association in October and a member of 2022. The association voted to support the project with 11 members in favor and five in opposition. Those who supported the project like the design and would really like to see their roof line be kept as well as the historic preservation of the Eagle Hill architectural design. And those will post expressed concerns of possible displacement. Our office has received five letters of support and not in opposition and at this time our office likes before judge wants to thank you. Thank you. Madame chair can I ask you to have the applicant address the concerns of displacement? Yeah so there was there there were two tenants that were in the building. Didn't come to the meetings they were short term tenants but they just wanted to ensure that we were not causing any addictions which we committed to on the record adding a little and at the abundance meeting. And just if I may address any there was a comment on the BPD about open space that area in the back is just a hot top area so that is really there really isn't any open space there now or green space that's being used by the building just a point. Thank you does that answer your questions? Yes thank you. Okay is there any other testimony? Okay hearing hearing done may I have a motion? Motion should be provided as a BPA deciding do. Motion approval? Yes. Okay thank you and this better for us. Mr. Vraza. Yes. Mr. Shepard. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Miss Mewel. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes ma'am. Mr. Starreridge. Yes. The chair also supports the motion motion carries. Okay looks like we have recommendations. Yes. Next we have the step committee recommendations. The first one is BOA 1363941 for 104-106 Trenton Street. Applicant is Trenton Brooks Corner Realty Trust. This was deferred to February 16th 2023 at 5 p.m. for continued community process. Then the next is BOA 139-1407 7 Armory Street. Applicants can enjoy this was approved with the PDA design review of attention to the dormer profile. Next is BOA 1408249 for 8 Armory Street. Applicant is Kevin Joyce of this looks like they're companion cases. Approval with the PDA with attention to dormer profile. Next is BOA 141758 for 101 Baldwin Street. Applicant is Sean Tracy. Approved with the PDA design review with attention to dormer size profile as well as materials. Next BOA 139-6700140 Trenton Street. Applicant 10 Temple Place LT just approved. BOA 1405814647 Royal St. Street. Applicant Anders Kern which also approved. BOA 1349367 6 Park Lane. Applicant Nathaniel Hafer and Teril but folks approved with the PDA design review. And then BOA 134429397 Hill Avenue. Applicant Chelsea Blanchard. So I think this was denied without prejudice. With W. We're drawn. And BOA 13597361236 to 1230 George Hester Avenue. Applicant Mitch Hayes approved. BOA 1396190302-316 Bowdoin Street. Applicant is Leigh Annakinson. This was also approved. BOA 1363414132-138 Park Street. Applicant Nadege Marcelline. Also approved. BOA 138135301 Adams Street. Applicant Manuel de Rosa. Approved. BOA 139378445 Cedar Grove Street. Applicant Robert Nicholas. Approved. BOA 1411481 1724-1740 Dorchester Avenue. Applicant Stefano Cara Sima. Approved with no building code relief for the basement. Next is BOA 13952681017 River Street. Applicant Mothers for Justice and Equality. Approved. BOA 1370974-378303-0Center Street. Applicant Douglas Salabar. Approved. BOA 138441922-Mertel Street. Applicant Michael Judge. Approved with BPDA Design Review with Attention to the Design of the Proposed Dormit. BOA 1386357 56 Boilson Street. Applicant Jennifer and John Cabana. Approved. And then we do have a rediscussion. Oh, I'll go for later. Oh, for later. Never mind. Oh, two more. Okay. And BOA 1335230510 East Ait Street. Applicant John Drago. Approved with BPDA Design Review with Attention to the Dormit. I'm guessing no roof deck. And BOA 13385146 Blang Street. Okay. Okay. So we're going to skip that one for now. BOA 1368532-60 Chesterfield Street. Applicant Tonya Polanco. Approved with BPDA Design Review. All right. Thank you. Acroplute subcommittee recommendations. Thank you. Was that the man have a motion to approve? I like to go ahead. Go ahead. We'll see you later. I'd like to put forward a motion of approval. The board's recommendation. Thank you. May I have a second? Second. Thank you. Mr. Baza. Yes. Mr. Shepard. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Wewell. Yes. Mr. Langel. Yes. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. Motion carries. All right. Almost there. I think they snuck five more cases for us today. Feels that way, doesn't it? Thanks, Tom. We're all going out. So now. All right. All right. So next we have BLA 109-4129-4011-4019. Washington Street. Applicant Neil Bowles. This is an article 80 project. They're seeking to construct a new mixed use property. Property will be 19 residential units, and then the next one. There's a date, care and retail. There's on site parking for 17 vehicles proposed. The violations include off-street parking is insufficient. Traffic visibility across corners and sufficient for dimensional regulations. More area ratio is excessive building height and feet in number of stories is also excessive. All right. Stafford can't available. Yes. Good morning. Good afternoon Madam Chair. Good morning. Good afternoon. Members of the board. Can you hear me? Okay. Yes. We can. Yes. My name is Jonathan Gold. I am the attorney for the petitioner and the developer. And I'm my office is at 873 Beacon Street in Boston. Thank you. The Rural Gold. The member of the development team and the project architect Matt Frankie, who's here, can be responsive to any questions on the plan. That you that I cannot answer. The product building that you're is being proposed. You see on the first sheet there, the 7905 square foot lot. At the corner of Washington Street and Lenscher Street and replaced it with a four-story 22,750 trees. Gross square foot building containing 19 home ownership residential units. Four of which will be IDP units. There will be first floor commercial tenant space. 17 parking spaces which are located on the first floor. 31 resident by parking spaces also located on the first floor and then four outdoor visitor ring and post bike spaces. Parking spaces located on Washington Street. Third sheet, which I believe is labeled EX1, shows the existing conditions. And the four sheet shows the metamine ambassador shows the post conditions. The project is located within the local convenience of district. Multi-family use is allowed. It's on the fourth, Hills, Washington Street transportation corridor. Show a lot to Washington to Washington, to Rosalina Square and for a social station. We originally filed this appeal in July 2020 following the initial refusal letter which was dated June 6. We're seeking the zoning relief as a secondary stated for a full log of 67 violations that you see on November 7th letter. One for off street parking 38 space required 17 provided floor area ratio in this district 0.5 allowed 2.63 is proposed. The building height 35 feet allowed 43.5 feet proposed. Hiding stories 2.5 allowed floor proposed. We believe the redesigned drawings have addressed a corner on visibility traffic violation. But I'll leave that to map the frankly the crocheted aspect to discuss that if you saw relations. I'd like to give just some brief historical context to this proposal. For many years this location was the home to plumbing specialties which was operated by Benjamin Gold who happened to be my father and the development father. He served plumbing and plumbing supply needs of the Greater Rosalina community for over 40 years. Additionally until about a year ago the premises were occupied. The portion of the premises were leased by little people's playhouse which was a child-like care that served that operated here since the until beginning of the mid-80s until recently. And that use was very important to Mr. Gold and crime was death he expressed his wish that this use or similarly use continue in that if possible and we're committed to doing. The project that appears before you today represents over three years of effort working with the community organized community, a major organized community group. The private meetings were the bottles and community groups, conversations with Rosalina residents, meetings with the with customer or oils office, discussions with office of neighborhood services. And we feel that this project has really had been taken full advantage of the public participation process. We had our first introduction to the neighborhood back in January of 2020. We were working on the project well before that in 2019. We had our first sit down meeting with city officials including the BPDA in March of 2020. The article lady process resulted in two public meetings in August of 2020, on March of 2022. And continued on ongoing and after conversations with individual members of the community all on. As you know, when you're here, the BPDA was brought approved the project in July of 2022. We have a balanced project which we believe provides affordable home opportunities to and another community benefits. I stated previously there are 19 residential units on floors two, three and four of the building, 13 one-bedroom units, four two-bedroom units and two studio units. Before the units and ITP, the inclusion of the unit represents 20% of the total number of residents you want to speak proposed. Three one-bedroom units and 80% IMI, one unit at 90% IMI and one at 100% IMI. There's one studio at 80%. This project has 10 private decks, six on floors, two and three, four on the floor, two of the 10 decks are reserved for the ITP units. The first floor and basic tenants' space you'll see on the sheet of a plan A, 100 and A1 and 1. The parking, the 17 parking spaces are located on the first floor, there's access by garage entrance on Mesh Street. There's an existing curb cut there now, we'll be expanding that out of the lead, 14 feet, but again, the apartment map will be able to speak to that if necessary. The residential parking, bicycle parking space is Exit on Washington Street and again as I get in the kitchen, the post-reparking, some Washington Street. It's an environmental friendly building, we have an all-electric, no fossil fuel building, very unique and you'll see a sheet A 105 is a vegetative grain roof. We have a lot of car charging stations in the first floor for the vehicle parking, there's a recycling station for residents, the basement level, broken into the construction, but it's all going to be green and our live energy efficient, mobile, sea, super-insulated, all that. A number of public improvements from the project, we have an extended sidewalk at the corner of Washington, Lesha Street will be constructed with a race crosswalk and signals, but new tree planning is a Lesha Street, a wash in the street, a number of community benefits. We've got to provide small affordable home ownership opportunities, we've got to provide those four IDP units, but be a financial contribution for parks to support the user experience that he we feel, and Arnold Avarieto, which is less than one tenth of a mile away, will have, will be making a financial contribution to Boston Transportation, to support the Boston Bike Share Program, we're committed to work with a preschool or a day care program, as again, this use was very important to Benjamin Gold, and the developer has at least been in discussions for some time, been in discussions with the Boston outdoor preschool network, and hopes to reach agreements that they will be able to utilize a portion of the first, the first local commercial space. The reduced parking and the provision for bike parking, again, this was a subject that we discussed and came up with the community and the BPDDA and field was a reasonable compromise, they make some of them for the better use of, at least use of public transportation by project residents, and will certainly contribute to the have access to the bike paths and everything that are close to them. We're estimating 35 temporary construction and labor jobs will be resulting from this particular project. The lot is a difficult lot of what's now in that, that has some significant drainage in total graphical constraints, and given that we're also providing these four-level market rate IDP units and smaller market rate units, a proposal, this proposal will not be able to reduce the project's size without actually, and being able to provide the benefits, the community benefits, substantial community benefits, but this project we believe is provided. At this time, we're available to answer any questions you may have, specific to the plans or any other questions, certainly the community. Thank you. I know Mr. Hampton is not with us anymore. Is there anyone else from BPDDA? I understand this went through an extensive community process already, and already, an enlarged project review, and was approved by BPDDA, is that correct? That was correct. It had a very substantial length, like I said, there are, there are, one-sip downgrading, informal, two possibly, and then two public meetings before the board here. Is there anyone from BPDDA or ONS who will be able to speak to that process a little bit later? Oujo and Oujo, here, in the liaison. Okay, we'll look forward to hearing from you later then. Are there questions from the board? Yes, ma'am, sir. Mr. Gold, can you tell me more about the daycare? Yes, I do. There is a proposal for a daycare as well. Yes, so, would you like to elaborate that please? If you can take a break, I'm just sure I won't. Yes, so Mr. Redshift, the little people's playhouse had been there for many, many years, and as they indicated, this was a use that was community-based and very important to this devote to continue. They vacated unexpectedly a year or a year and a half ago, there's probably, you know, the label was right around, COVID or post-COVID, but they vacated. They had been there since, I know I worked on a lease in 1985. They had been there, it's very long period of time. And so we would say we hope that we've tried to sort of engage, and we were looking at it, obviously we're still early in the process, but like I said, we have been talking with them. Talking with the Boston Outdoor Network, preschool network program, and hopefully, and they're going to support our project, and hopefully that we'll be able to re-sumptide a agreement so they will in fact be able to use some of that space, some of that 10 in its space, which is on the first floor and the basement. Thank you, and there is any open space for the children to pay, if there is a daycareing that, get them? There is no open space, I mean, there are no open space in the building for that. And I think that's one of the advantages of working with the Boston Outdoor Crystal Network, because they do make use of the algorithm, they do make use of the ELE field, which has the playground and the gym equipment and all that stuff. So there is no, I mean, we have open space, there are open spaces for the outdoor decks, but frankly, that's not, we don't have any commercial space that would be outdoor space. No. Thank you. Finally, for the four of the audience that you are proposing, how many of those are one, two or three bedrooms? What is the layout for those units? Now, do you want to jump in and talk about the four IDP units? I think we have, what we have is, yeah, I think we have two on the second floor, one of them is 563 square feet, it's a one bedroom, one of them, another second one is, I think it's either 200 on the plans, I don't know what sheet back, but sheet is that? According to the BDA, I can tell you right now to make it easier. There are two units on the second floor and two units on the third, a studio and three one bedrooms, and the studio is the 563 square feet at 80% AMI, the one bedroom is range from 685 to 765 square feet and a 180, 190 AMI. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Madam Chair. I learned there's been a question from the board. Yes, I have a question regarding the bus lane, the bus will remain in terms of this stop right in front of your building. We have no plans to change that, we're assuming that that will stay the same. Okay, and then in terms of your roof deck, it might have been asked already, I know it's not a roof deck, it's kind of a cool roof of a vegetative roof. And potentially have you considered if there was to have, there was to be a date care center on the ground floor and you wanted to in the future provide open space for that use. And can your project take on a future open, worst deck based on the two cores that you have? Well, certainly an engineer and question, and I know that there's no presently with a green roof, but the vegetative roof won't have that access. Whether that's something that we can incorporate into some design so that it could be potentially used or the future will certainly open to that. Because there's always this balance with parking and open space. Right. And I really commend, you know, kind of the outreach and your proposal for the community to understand that there are a couple of daycare centers along Washington street. And so it's a great use. And so the question is, you know, how do you design an ecological building that considers potential change of use in the future for what the community needs are? So I just want to, you know, you to consider that as, you know, throughout throughout time. The other thing is, you know, when we, I commend you as well for thinking about affordability and a lot of projects that are in front of us is, you know, claims that you can't accommodate parking because it's very expensive. So, you know, how did you, you know, how did you make it financially possible to provide affordability, reduce parking, potential community use and provide housing. You know, that that's something that is going to be in front of our board as a new board. And so, and I'm just, you know, I would just love like an insight on that. Well, thank you. We want very hard to try to read. And I mean, we realize not everybody has happened with every decision, but we feel like it was a balanced project that took into all those considerations that you just mentioned. We appreciate that. Thank you. Are there other questions from the board? Is that Katie? That's a question. How is the parking allocated between the residential uses and the commercial? So, Secretary, the presently, these are residential spaces. We haven't made any provision for the commercial space. However, the spaces will not, will be decoupled in the sense that they will not be sold with the, you know, there are some unit purchasers who will not want those spaces. They will be allocated through the condominium documents to unit owners or it's certainly conceivable that being a commercial unit owner that there may be spaces or one space truth, whatever, that can allocate. But presently, our intention is to allocate these spaces to the residents. And in some of the ones the cars and some of the wall, and then once we know that we'll have to make decisions how do you realize spaces? Thank you. And so, with the day carries, there's a lot of specifics with that use. Like pick up and drop off and various, you know, activities. Is, was there any thought given to those who are picking up and dropping off their child in a vehicle and, you know, how will that work with attention and safety and things like that? Well, it's always been, I haven't first had an experience because I worked at that company shop. During their occupancy, I would say that, that it was always certainly, they were always staff members. Carefully, who were outside, unwashed in the street, you know, making sure that those safe, don't know that entry and exit from the vehicles was safe. I understand that certainly we're going to have to do some additional working with the, with the tenant, to have to be some additional procedures and methods of procedures in place in order to make that both effective and also safe from me. And that, that isn't challenge, but I don't think one that we can somehow, I think that we can certainly take care of that. Katie, that's a really interesting question because you were one is assuming that is a resource for the community. And what I thought was commendable is that this building as a residential structure also houses that need within its residents. So, you know, how is assuming because you're right, like this does not work if it's a daycare or a center for the outside vicinity, but it is a potential resource for the families that are living in this building, you know, to be able to just go, you know, go downstairs or take the elevator. I don't think there's an elevator here, but just there is an elevator. Yes. Okay, perfect. You know, I thought it was really servicing the residents of the building so you necessarily do not need vehicles to use that, but it's a really great question. Well, as some know, it has a child and child care. It is a legitimate question because not everyone is able to walk in that area, but he lives there. So, hopefully you will just look into some possibility of, you know, 15 minute drop off, pick up, drop off or something like that to accommodate any other solutions. I don't have any specific concerns, just to pay attention to the specificity of the use and how that use operates and just to ensure a safe environment for everyone visiting the site. Thank you. Are there any other questions from the board? Then I will take public testimony. I would turn out to your members office of neighborhood services. I attended this meeting just to be an onlooker. I received some letters of support and opposition. I believe they should have been sent someone from BPD something to me as well. So that would be about, let me see. 14 letters of opposition and seven letters of support. From the letters, you can see there are some concerns about the parking spaces and the amount of affordable housing. At this moment, the city of the Mays, so would like to, for judgment to the board. Thank you. So, what you involved in the community process when it went through, you already called Mr. Newman, you're also on because I think that would be helpful to understand as well. So, yes or no. So with the community process for the PDA, my office does not hold those. We just attend to take note of what's going on. So if I go to the report back to the zoning board. Okay, with that, I see a counselor or a royal office is on. Good afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the board. Jordan, for you here, to staff to counsel the recording royal. We'd like to call on the record and support of this proposal. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Pres. Thank you, Madam Chair. My name is her percent in the carpenters. On behalf of all the members of the living in the neighborhood, want to go and record support. Thank you. Jessica, are there other reasons to ask? Okay, hearing none. I will seek entertain a motion from the board. Madam Chair, I'd like to go for a motion of approval with the PDA design review. And I have a second. Thank you. Mr. Pazza. Yes. Mr. Schaffer. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Wewold. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Okay. Chair votes. Yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you very much. Madam Chair, members of the board. Very appreciate you, Mr. Gold. Thank you. Okay. Next we have BOA 1386397, eight Rowena Street. The applicant is seeking to change occupancy from two to three family. This includes converting the basement into a third unit. Their violations consist of off-street parking insufficient. The three family detached dwelling is forbidden and the four area ratio is excessive. The applicant is Eric Krasowski. The applicant present to speak. It looks like he needs to be added as a panelist. I don't know who's on here from the ZBA who can do that please. You send me a mic out of here. I'm sorry. We send in the invite out of here. Thank you. Thank you. Yeah, I just got it. Thank you. Could my brother Evan be added as well? Okay. It's a long day for all of us if you could walk us through the violations and your proposal that would be great. Thank you. Sure. Just wanted to confirm that my brother will be added. We send in a brother of the invitation. Okay. So we are proposing a occupancy change from a two to three unit building with the additional unit being in the basement as a two bedroom one bathroom unit. We have the kitchen and common living on the right and the bedrooms and bath on the left side of the unit. We have a four in ceiling height about nine feet. It should result in a pretty spacious finished product that won't feel too much like a basement. We designed the new front entrance which you can see on the floor plan there at the front right of the unit and it's also shown on the renderings. We just scroll down. We designed it to match the dormer on the third floor of the building with a a hip roof just to keep the design congruent. We have two full walk out doors as egresses in the unit and an egress window in one bedroom and a full egress walk out door to the rear of the property and the other. It's a good opportunity to add housing to the neighborhood and happy to answer any other questions the board may have. Thank you. Ms. Berraza, do you have any questions? No, I, the, it's pretty straightforward. No questions. Sat at what the drawings are. And you converting a basement into a third unit crack. Yes. Okay. Are there any other questions from the board? Hearing none, I'm going to ask for public testimony. Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor Newman with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This time the Mayor's Office looks to defer judgments to this board. Some background information on the community process. Our office hosted a butters meeting on September 26th, where there were some concerns expressed regarding it seems to be an egress issue. I'm going to understand that they've been before to the board and were deferred with that. I would defer judgment to the board. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Newman. Are there any other people to speak in support or an opposition? All right, hearing none. May I have a motion? Madam Chair, before a motion of approval with the PDA design review of paying special attention to the design of the front basement entry. Thank you. Do I have a second? Second. Thank you, Ms. Berraza. Yes. Mr. Shepherd? Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Ms. We will. Yes. Mr. Langham? Yes, ma'am. Thank you, Mr. Stembridge. Yes. The Chair also votes yes, the motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Can you hear me now? We sure can just go. Welcome back. Thank you. Thank you for being able to fix my audio issues, I apologize. That's okay. All right. Next, we have the BOA 1338514, address 6th bling street, applicant Rufuspop. The applicant is seeking a proposed driveway curb cut in off street parking for two vehicles. The violations include limitation of area of accessory uses, the off street parking design and maneuverability. The off street parking does not provide vehicle impact protection for a body property at four bling street. I think this was a referral from the subcommittee. Yes, that is correct. Is Mr. Valencia? Yes, hi. Good afternoon. Oh, don't just a second start. Yes. Okay. Good afternoon. Before us a few times. Thank you. Yes, I have. Yes, my name is Rufus folks, senior. I live at 6th bling street, Roxbury. Let's see. My wife and I have owned and occupied this single family home for the last 28 years. The bling street is a dead end street parking is on one side of the street. I have a few things to say. So, to answer some of the things we covered in our last meeting in regards to parking in the front yard. I have included, including, included, roaring that shows that there is a 11.5 foot space from the front yard to that very first car there. I have mentioned that the second car. Let's see, let me just go through. Okay. And the, the, the rear of the building extends 30 feet beyond that rear corner you see there to the backyard. Let's see. That would hopefully provide, I believe it will provide the necessary accessibility to loading and unloading that sort of thing. Well, I've received the support of my neighbor at number four. And my other neighbors in regards to any dimensions or problems or questions you may have. But hopefully, you know, if you have any questions, you're welcome to discuss. I just want to thank you for coming back. I know we had some different questions and Mr. Paul has, you know, has endeavored to address those questions with us. And we do appreciate it. He's a measured, he's measured the width to help us as well. Just for context, we also did ask already about on street parking and whether or not there could be residential parking in case anyone was going to ask. And the city is not doing that right now, so that is not an option. I just wanted to say all that is because we do have new board members who may have. Right. Some other questions that we had already, you know, covered. With that, do we have any other questions, any questions from the board? Right. Is anyone, I know only a, Hansy's from the subcommittee with me. If you have anything you want to add. You're on mute if you're trying to speak. Okay. Then I'm going to ask Bob, Bob raises and the me go from B.T.D. Mr. Domingo, did you have a comment? Yes, Madam Chair and the board of all the me go B.T.D. So, A.T.D. is kind of tight and since it's residential, you know, we can push the limit on that one. It was commercial. It could not be accepted. Is there any way the school vehicle has been reported toward the rear? So it could be more maneuverability. It's just a little nervous at the lack of death and the length because you need a faulty feet from the front of the house. Now, when I say the front, I don't mean the curb. I mean, from where the front of the house begins, back, you need faulty feet. So I don't know if the applicant can satisfy that requirement. But I'd like to ask him if he could do so. Yes, yes, saw the distance from what you see there as on the left side of the property extends 30 feet. So, the faulty feet to the back yard, that's all yard area directly north or towards the top of the design. So, there is the faulty feet to the end of your property line or the house. The house is 30 and beyond the house is 30 feet to the back. So, you could push back 10 feet from the farm. That's correct. To answer Bob's question. I'm really glad Bob that you asked that question because I really appreciate that you got your butters support. But you never know if you're a butter my move or sell and you know, let's say there's offense, which was my original concern. We want to make sure that you have enough clearance at the rear that you have when you have space to open your car door or anything like that. So, I'm glad Bob asked that question. I don't have any questions. Thank you. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? No, I'm a question. I'm sorry. Yes. I'm sure I'm sorry, I'm a question. Have you considered sort of the constraints with opening the car door to get in and out of the vehicle? I have. I'm sure. I'm sure. I have. I'm sure. I'm sure. I'm sure. I'm sure. Are there any other questions from the board? No, I have a question. I'm sorry. Yes. You ready to go? I'm sure. I'm sure. Are there any other questions from the board? With that, I'm going to take public testimony. If there is any, is there any public testimony, Jessica? Any raise hands? No, not at the moment. I know we had some support on pile. That would have been hurt through the subcommittee. And we don't raise hands at the moment. Right. Well, again, Mr. Falken, thank you for taking our questions and feedback. Under consideration in our previous hearings and putting forward updated plans, et cetera. So with that, may I have a motion? And, Chair, I'd like to put forward a motion of approval with a provisal that Mr. Falken also provides 10 feet of clearance behind his property, like behind his building. Okay. May I have a second? Second. Thank you. Ms. Bedabras. Yes. Mr. Shepard. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. We will. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Mr. Stembridge. Yes, Madam Chair. Thank you. The Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Thank you so much for your patience, Mr. Falken. Good luck. Thank you. This is Tom. I can ask Mr. Falken to come. Yes. Mr. Falken. Yes. Mr. Falken. Yes. Yes. Mr. Tom, I can ask Mr. Falken to come. Yes. The player vacation pipe. It's basically providing what Bob was requesting, which is almost like a 40 feet drive aisle, you know, from the front of the property. Yes. Mr. Falken, just send to BPDA or like to make sure that there's a tent, like the driveways, extend as at least 10 feet beyond the rear vows. I think the phrase, if you currently have that 10 feet blocked, please click there to make sure you have fully unblocked feet. Right, Mr. Falken? Yes. Yes. Not a problem. But I would just ask for the BPDA then. I don't think it needs to be that BPDA will let or BTT unless Bob requests it. I will just remind me down just to make sure that you click this face. Yeah, exactly. Thank you. All right. Thank you, sir. Very good. Thank you. Thank you. Next, we have BOA 133055037 Jenkins Street. The applicant is about a mesh carol. They are seeking to change the use from a single to a two family. Their violations include the floor area ratio, the excessive building height, excessive open spaces, and sufficient. The applicant on? Adam Chair, members of the board, Attorney Ryan Spitz with Adam's and Marancy, business address of 168H Street First floor, Stelk Boston. With me here today is Fatime Carol, who is the owner, as well as the architect Shane Losey from Chulac Company. As this was a subcommittee hearing that was heard on the 19th and it was recommended by Ms. Perazer to have a further discussion with BTT and have this deferred, and which we did have that discussion with Mr. Bob DeMico, which I'm sure you'll hear from him later. And then I will get to the parking scheme when we go through the plans. That's great that you have this drawing. Now, if we could keep this slide up here for a few minutes, that would be great. So this is a proposal to change the occupancy from a single family to a two family with ground floor parking for two vehicles by way of renovation and addition. The proposal is actually located with an L1 zoning sub-dister, which is from the old base code of Stelk Boston. We currently have four violations. FAR 1.0 is allowed. The proposal we're calling for is a 1.79. The rear yard violation, the existing backyard has a deck that fills the entire dimension of the yard. The new proposal will now allow for some green space in the rear. Under the shallow lot reduction, when less than 100 feet deep, it would require the proposal to provide 12.5 feet under section 20-8. And this plan proposes a rear yard setback of exactly 12.5 feet. So I believe this violation was due in error. The next violation was the building height. What is compliant is 35 feet three stories. And we're proposing 39.75 feet in four stories. We also have a usable open space violation. 400 square feet is what is compliant. And the proposal calls for 264 square feet. In the original plans going through the community process, we did have open space of decks that were factored into the plans. But due to the neighbor concerns, we removed those decks which triggered the open space violation. And now I just want to call to your attention to the to the spray to the plan that we have brought up. As you can see here, where the red marker is, that is the proposal in question. That is the parcel. You can see that there are a ton of other properties here that have significant heights than what we're proposing. So I think that's something that I did raise during the first initial meeting that we had was that, again, this is the old based zoning code. Most of the self-boss and is actually zoned out of article 68, quite frankly, 90 to 95% of Jenkins Street is governed by article 68. And if we were subject to article 68, we would have been zoning compliant under what we're requesting here. So I would like to highlight that and bring that to your attention. If now I can focus your attention on page six of the drawings. So this this page, I'm going to start off with the ground floor. It's consisting of garage to park to vehicles, which will be accessed by a new proposed 10 foot wide curb cut. So this is the actual floor plan for it. I'm sorry, maybe I give you the wrong page. There's a page. Can you just scroll back on the page, please? Yes, that's it. There we go. Yeah, perfect. Okay, so this again, this is the ground floor level, which will consist of garage to park to vehicles, which will be accessed by a new proposed 10 foot wide curb cut. So the original plans that were presented to the subcommittee have the two parking spaces, which is one is eight foot by six inches wide, 20, 21 feet long, and then the second one is seven feet wide by 18 feet long. Those two original parking spaces were side by side. There was no spacing in between them. As you can see from the new proposed drawings after discussions with Mr. Demeco from the Transportation Department, he recommended that we slide that right hand space over to provide a separation between the two spaces. We have approximately about three feet in between those two spaces. Also, in the rear of the garage, you'll notice that we designated area for a trash storage with a trash compactus. Also on this ground floor level, all walkways will be heated to assist with snow melting. Going scrolling over to the next to keep in continuing on this slide here, unit one, layout plan is approximately at 913 square feet, which will consist of the second floor, two bedroom unit, kitchen in the living area will be included as well. Unit two is approximately 1,635 square feet, which will consist of the third in the fourth floors, which will be a three bedroom with a study in a family room, also kitchen living room within the area. Our roof plan consists of solar-ready zones. So that sums up our presentation. Happy to open it up at this point in time for any questions. All right. Thank you. I know Mr. Demeco is on, so you could weigh in on the parking issue and maneuverability issue of the great. Yes, Madam Chair and in the members of the board, Bob Demeco, VTV. Mr. Spid has made me a judgment to the Ivory Council. And it works fine and like one record is part of the snow pole. Thank you. Thank you. Is better browser any questions on the plans? Madam Chair, the drawings are adequate. If I would have, I would imagine that to remove the trash, you just have to do it through. You have to take the trash all the way inside the enclosed garage, correct? And travel 60 feet to the front. Yes, we figure some self-bossed properties, it becomes an ISO when they keep their trash in recycled storage in the front of the building. So here it would be less of an ISO or keeping it intact so that there's no animal infestation as well. Okay. And then in terms of the side yard, it seems like you're keeping approximately the same kind of footprint. But to the left, your building is getting a little bit wider than the existing footprints. Slightly a little bit wider, I would say. It goes from 1.8 to 2.2. So I do have Shane Losey on the call as well that can answer that specific question regarding this idea. What's the side yard requirement? Can you remind me again? Free feet. Okay. So you are reducing it from? Actually, the side yard here is zero because it's under the age 150 zone. Sorry. Okay. You are reducing it from 1.82.2, correct? Yes. Okay. Okay. I have no further questions. Thank you. Great. Thank you. Okay. Okay. Hearing none. I'm going to open it to public testimony. Yes. Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor Newman with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. The sound of the Mayor's Office would like to defer to the judgment of this board. Some background information in the community process. Our office held in the butters meeting on August 23rd. The applicant thing went on to meet with the Andrew Square Civic Association who expressed concerns regarding the height. What they thought was an inadequate parking ratio and concerns. It felt there was not enough open space involved with the project. They voted to oppose and I believe afforded a letter in opposition from that group to this board. We defer to the judgment of the board. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. That was just collected from the workers was really very, really dangerous. We're out of the group because they make that question because everybody understand it. Probably you were implying they'll be doing all the job I have in the first week of this year plus 39 over Good afternoon, Madam Chair. The ZBA members, John Pagotelisd, lifelong resident of the Bambresquiz, Augustine, and the ASCA Development Committee Chair. After engagements of the community process and after review of the proposal, considering ISD plans, examiners, sightings, we would like to go on record as opposed to this proposal. And additionally, I would like to add, Sunday night, I forwarded six more letters from about us and neighbors in opposition to this proposal to ZBA and Electeds. And also, should this proposal move forward? I asked BPDA and the developer to consider a coastal residency plans as this location is in the 100-year-of-what-back plans. Thank you. Thank you. The National Response Dance. Thank you. With that, may I entertain a motion from the world? Did you agree to BPDA? Oh, I'm sorry. BPDA recommends that now without prejudice, proposal is excessive, the address is ground floor parking, maneuverability, and all the need for a cut. I'm guessing the second part was already addressed with Bob. So I'm not sure if Jeff would have the different opinion. Madam Chair, can I respond to that as well, too? Briefly. Yep, so I just wanted to highlight before what I spoke about that over 90% of the street is government-bi article 68. If for some reason, when they re-zoned self-hosted back in 2016, this parcel was not added into article 68. It's the first house in Offerville, Coney Avenue, which is a major thoroughfare. The surrounding building tights are very excessive to this one. We feel that will be a recent fit. And again, it was article 68, would have been a stony compliant product. I understand, but I'm guessing Jeff would say it's not. So with that, may I entertain a motion from the board? I'd like to put forward a motion of approval with BPDA design review. And also would just kind of request that the applicant keeps the adjacent butters in constant communication in terms of the construction process. And to ensure that the modification summary is of 921-22, are also met, which seems like it came from the community process. Do I have a second? Does that count? Ms. Beter-Brasov? Yes. Mr. Schupper? Yes. Mr. Valenzio? Yes. Ms. Mewel? Yes. Mr. Langham? Yes. Mr. Schupper? Yes. Yes. Mr. Semberg? Yes. Thank you. Chair votes, yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Great. Thank you very much. Next, we have BOA 1298133, address 1395-4105 Washington Street. The applicant is the Walsh LLC. They are seeking to construct a new six-story 33 multi-family residential building with four shell ground floor local retail and restaurants for the plant. They're combining parcels and demoing and existing one-story building. Their violations include G-Cod applicability that used for the three restaurants. Dimensional regulations, FAR, exceeds 3.0 max. The usual open space, the rear yard, roof structure restrictions, off-street parking and loading requirements. Is the applicant present? Yes. Good afternoon. Madam Chair, members of the board. Mark LeCasla, 75 Arlington Street in Boston. I'm the attorney for the project proponent, Peter Torjantes, who is also on the call. And the architect is Robert DelSavio from Embark. This is a proposal to combine three lots, which currently contain a one-story retail and restaurant space, which are vacant and one of which is a pizza shop co-owned by the project proponent, which will relocate in the new building once complete. You can just enlarge this screen a little bit for context of the photo, just to orient the board members. So the large building on the left, of course, is the Holy Cross Cathedral on Washington Street in the south end. And this property is directly across the street from the Holy Cross Cathedral. Currently, the one-story low rise. So it's basically a giant missing tooth in this block of Washington Street with a six-story kind of building on the right and the existing five-story building. But it's the same proposed height on the left. The proposed project that is under consideration today is the darker facade building that is inserted in between the two existing buildings. And I would just like to note that because of its location in the south end, landmark district, and also in conjunction with our Article 80 small project review process at the BPDA, the building iteration and design has gone through extensive process. We have three advisor review hearings with the south end landmarks commission, and ultimately a fourth hearing at which the south end landmarks commission approved the design of the building and the materiality in large part with details, of course, subject to ongoing south end landmark design proviso. So much work and effort went into what this building looks like and what it is given its very important location right across from the Holy Cross Cathedral. Similarly, we went through an extensive Article 80 small project review process given that it's new construction on a very important commercial corridor in the south end. Washington Street was the subject of a planning study back in the late 1990s, which took effect in the early 2000s and resulted in the construction of over 1,500 new residential units between Berkeley Street and Dartmouth Street. And literally this is the last available site of this significance on that stretch of Washington Street and was specifically planned with reference to the Washington Street Plan that was put into effect some 20 years ago as part of our BPDA process. So again, existing low rise one story is demolished. The new building will be six stories with 33 residential units on the upper floors with the ground floor remaining. It's currently shown in three different spaces. It could end up being one large space or three spaces with a proposal that at the retail and or restaurant. The BPDA Board considered and approved this project on March 10 of 2022 with 33 units and four IDP units. Given the constraints of the site and the location of Washington Street with the two abutting side streets that end on Washington Street, there's no rear alley behind this building unlike many of the other streets in the south end. So there's no way to get behind this building. There's a small alley behind the building between this building and the Greek Orthodox Church directly behind us. But it's not, it's just a pedestrian sized alley. So there's no way to get cars into or under this building such that this proposal is a zero parking proposal. But that is done with reference to its location, approximately to the orange line on the one hand. The red line stop across on the south Boston side. Washington Street of course is host to the silver line bus line. And it's also the number eight bus and the number ten bus. So in light of its location and its transportation access. The BPDA did approve this as a zero parking building with parking for 34 bicycles as an alternate for the rest of the residents. Again, the one stat process was complete in March of 2022 after about nine months of community meetings, public meetings, meeting with BPDA staff architects to design the building. We then had our final, Southern landmarks commission hearing on May 9, 2022 and that resulted in approval of the design of the building. Next slide. So this is the site plan showing the three different parcels. One of the requests of this appeal is to combine those three parcels to create one lot of 6,938 square feet upon which the new building, which is 38,000 gross square feet would be constructed. Next slide. This shows the parcels as combined. You'll note across the front of the building there's sort of a zigzag pattern in and out. That was a result of BPDA design suggestions because of the width of the sidewalk and a desire to enlarge the sidewalk and reduce the pinch points given the location of street trees and accessibility issues. So the front floor of the garage was zigzags in and out in response to the request for public realm enhancements. Next slide. So this is brought from the park studio. So this is a section through the building on the right hand size, pictured Washington Street. Again, the building is six stories and if you notice on the top floor, this is a significant setback from the major facade of the building. As we look at some of the funding photographs of the building, you can see that that gesture is emulated there as well. It's about a three foot grid difference between the Washington Street side and the rear alley, which again is just a pedestrian alley and access alley. Next slide. So this is the site pictured in between the two party walls of both 1387 and 1407 Washington Street. The building circle in blue will come down to the ground or the ground. So this is the building pictured on the right, the brick ends around the floor of that building. So that's where our setback occurs and the proposed buildings respect the massing of that building. That line carries across despite the number of four different between the building on the left, 1407 and one of the right 1387, the heights of the building is about the same in our building. It fits in pretty evenly across that as I have a couple of other blocks are pretty narrow, which is part of the response to creating the ground floor plain that's sort of granulated in and out appearance. We'll really reconstruct the sidewalks part of the work and then get more breathing room to door swinging in and out of the retail spaces in our proposed plan. Next slide please. The ground floor plan is the plant-based plan is on the left, first floor plan, and showing that granulated ground floor front condition on the right, the building is subject to the groundwater issues as well as the flood issues, which is why all the residential related spaces on the ground floor are raised up by that five or six steps that you see at the back of the building. So it includes the electric room, the mail room, and the package room. Those three buildings needed to be out about that flood plan elevation. The building is serviced from an egress perspective by two stairs. The one on the left versus the subject is recent discussions with the neighboring parties of 1407 Washington Street and all the stress that has been moved up the building. Next slide please. So one of the more of the concerns that you're looking probably at was they have some windows that are in the existing party wall of their building, which you couldn't do today, but they exist. And they're concerned with being able to maintain some degree of ventilation and some degree of natural light. So the stair depiction on the left here is now no longer as a roof at the top of it. And it's an open air stair allowing some ventilation for those windows as well as some daylight that look down the stairwell. But protecting that opening because of fire code issues with a shutter, but that opening will allow again some light and air to get down to those windows. And the next slide. Next page. This is a roof plan. There is a roof deck plan for the roof of the building. And again, as that stair, the payment open air stair on the left hand side, we've now created just a guardrail wall assembly to allow you to more light and air to penetrate down the building. The roof deck is only used by the residents, some of the commercial uses in the ground floor of access to it is just for the residents of the building. That's all. Thank you. Madam Chair, do you want me to go over the zoning issues or just respond to questions? I think we'll try to respond to some questions. I know it's a long day for everyone. So those may come out as we ask questions. Perfect. Then we'll add it back into the presentation. Okay. And before anyone asks, I know Mr. Volta, there are four I units on the second turn of work floor between 80 to 100% AMI and studios and one bedroom. Thank you, Madam Chair. I'm actually going to ask when the product class of the BPD approved on the memo, I see that there were 33 units. Now there are 35. Is that correct? No. Mr. Volta, I'm sorry. I think the old refusal letter as an additional proposal were 35 units, but that was when there was an additional floor on the building left in off prior to the BPD process. So it's 33 units. And in addition to the four IDP units designated and approved by the BPD board, it was a small point edition of 0.29 and that is the $110,000 contribution payable to the BPD special reserve fund. And that's also expressed in the board. My model is part of the project satisfaction for IDP requirements. Thank you very much. And what is the reason behind how in only the minimum IDP that is for unity in the state of trying to provide it with one or two more? The proposal is to the December 2015 IDP policy, which is currently in effect, 13% plus the contribution to the fund was deemed to satisfy the existing IDP policy. Thank you. We just saw another project in the today and the project is offered in 2020 percent IDP units. So I was just asking because we know that some other developers can do that, and I'm assuming we should ask that. I'm assuming we should ask that. What would be the benefit of the cost of the project? The benefit for the cost of the project, and I think I'm going to please put out the rest of this question. I understand and it certainly got a question. And I'm not that Ms. Bet faraza is kind of playing some of the economic issues with the other proposed, but I think I don't mean to speak for the other projects, but I did hear the mention that it had owned the property or many, many decades. and land cost of course one of the basic component drivers of the dynamics of any projects, I think, just an observation that's probably the difference between what somebody who's owned property for 50 years can do versus a more recent acquisition. Thank you. Thank you for answering that question. Yeah, I was good question, and we got places that all about the- The Leo Council didn't answer it, so thank you for that. I have a question regarding the windows. The section here shows one, two, three, four windows that are existing, correct, and your solution, the architect solution is to pretty much keep it kind of an open shaft, correct? Yeah, that's correct, and that's clearly the actual shell of the everybody. So, the four windows will be equipped with a fire shutter? Yeah, and so is this kind of reviewed and was this a solution in coordination with ISD, how, you know, are the neighbors supporting that solution? Are you going to be required to come back and request a building-cold relief? I am one of the window units on the other side. I think I need to put my inputs here before Marxist anything, because this window is not pretty much in my- I'm sorry, I'm sorry, who are you? I'm Sean Garcia again, I'm one of the window units on the other building. I don't think- I think we're still talking within our board, correct? We're not accepting public testimony yet, thank you. I'm sorry, I'm not an interior friend, intervening here, but I think we're still in the questioning phase, okay, great. Zemar, can you respond to that? Okay, thanks. There are four windows in the party wall at 1411, and it is an existing condition, and the need and registry documents indicate that the windows are in the party wall between the two properties, which means, you know, the party wall is owned to the center line of the party wall by both sides of the property, but nevertheless the windows are there. So, initially, we explored proposals which included closure of those windows, and moving them to a different location within the building next door, which has two existing light wells. It's an older building with very unique interior courtyard light wells, so we explored that for many, many months with both sides, architects, engineers to see if that would be a workable solution. Ultimately, it was determined that that was not an optimal solution, though in response to further requests from the trustees of the building next door, the request was to create this notch in the building. If we take over the last slide, it will depict the condition of this interior stairway. Interior to the new building, but exterior in the sense that it's open at the top, so it's like a giant light well essentially mimicking the existing light wells of the building next door that houses windows for bathrooms and titchens and other rooms within some of the units next door. So, it was reviewed by ISD, the most recent set of plans, and Ambassador, can we go to the very last slide? Is this the last slide in the side? It should be normal. Okay, there it is. So, there's the cut, the side cut of the proposed, you can see the one, two, three, four windows in the building next door, and this will be the staircase that is essentially creating a light well by virtue of cutting into the new building to create this new condition. And Rob, if you want to add anything? No, I think it's open to this guy above, and we're working on some details to make sure that more light gets to that window surface as possible by Simplhynah and Rallikos in front of it. Okay, so this was approved by the ISD as a potential solution that doesn't require a cold relief. Correct, it's part of the set that was reviewed by Cheryl Oden, January 26, 2023, which includes sheet A30, the proposed stairway, and no building code relief letter was issued. Okay, thank you. Thank you, are there any additional questions or numbers of the board? Just one, I'm just curious. Yes sir. First floor, there will be commercial space. Yes. You have a first principle that just be loved at the bottom of the voices. So as shown in the plans, Mr. Sambridge, there are three separate spaces, which is the current configuration. There is Southampeza, which is co-owned by Peter and George Antis, the developer here. And then there are two vacant spaces that were victims of COVID by and large. So it will either be three retail restaurant spaces. The pizza place is coming back, so that will be one. And then the other two will either be one large space or two smaller ones, retail restaurant, consistent with that stretch of Washington Street and the programming that Washington Gateway Main Street advocates for that quarter, which is three level retail with residential above. Thank you. And I'm sorry, I'm telling you, we'll invite pizza and that Southampeza. Thanks for clarifying. Okay, with that, may I have a testimony? Yeah, I'm here. Chris, some of the nothing groundwater trust and we have both letters from the applicant for G. Cod. Thank you. We have those letters as well. Thank you. Hi, I'm good afternoon, my name is Chan. Members of the board, I'm here, silly from the mayor's office of neighborhood services. It's project through a BPD process, which adjust all concerns of a butters. And it is an extensive community outreach as well as work with a butters that passionate or concerns regarding the windows on the buddy building. This has received no opposition. I was crippling that and this family likes to defer to the board. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Well, boss. What's up being done about past control? Sir, do you have a position or do you have a position or have a position or have a position? Yes. Thank you. In order to obtain the building permit we will have to have a construction management and approved by Boston Transportation Department Vincent. We are happy to circulate that to you. have a draft of a comprehensive construction management plan that's been prepared by Howard Steinhudson, which is an engineering firm that prepares such plans. We will have emergency contact information. You'll have phone numbers for our project manager. You'll have Peter's phone number, perhaps Peter Jorjansis, who is in the neighborhood a lot, has other properties and lives nearby as well. So there will be a full construction management plan with full emergency access information available all the time. Thank you. The road and control is subject to reviewing approval of our plan by the community sanitation department at ISD, which is also another prerequisite to obtaining a building permit. So those will all be fully in place. And we're happy to provide those to the trustees and the unit owners at 1387 Washington as well. Thank you. Can I continue public testimony? Just good. I have no other way to hand. All right. Thank you. Any is that a way to sound for this project? Yes. I don't really. Sorry. Cameron Maroliver was at the Arlington Court of Condominium Trust. I have an office at 100 States Street. Some reason the hand has gone down twice now. But just briefly, I do want to. And sorry. What is that address of that Arlington Court that you mentioned? So directly next door, one, four, seven, dash, one, four, one, one to the left of this construction. So I represent the Board of Trustees on this project. We've been in touch and engaged with the developer for over a year now to come to a plan regarding these windows that are going to be effectively blocked. We did receive a new set of plans on Friday, but have not yet had an opportunity to pass those on to our vendors for review of them on our end of the project. So we do appreciate those came in, but we haven't had a chance to fully vet them. That being said, we have some concerns and we want to confirm that that will address the code issues that were raised relative to the use of the stairwell. If it will be approved, we'd ask that it provides will be entered that it may only be used for emergency use only given as it will, but windows looking directly into living space. We don't want residents to be able to access that large roof deck from this staircase. That being said, we look forward to ongoing discussions with the applicant to try and resolve any open issues that might exist. I'm sorry. Can I ask that that gets answered by the applicant whether the residents would mean that second piece of egress to access the roof? I'll start by confirming everything that Cameron said. We've been working closely with Council and believe that we have good working relationship and made a commitment earlier today to continue that relationship with standing whatever happens here today. There are ongoing design details that need to be worked out concerning the hand rail and the guard rail of the stairwells. There's a comprehensive butter agreement that Mike Lyon has pretty much agreed to everything in the butter agreement has actually signed the agreement so we're very close and I think Cameron would agree with that. But yes, we make the commitment to continue that and Ms. Bedabaraza, one of the items in the agreement is that in fact this stairwell emergency purpose is only and robbed. El Sabio, if you can confirm that it's not anything to the contrary, that'd be great. That is correct. That stairwell only needs for emergency use. So there's a little leaving in the emergency situation. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Madam Chair, this has been some grannies again about our agenda question. What is the construction duration or the planned construction duration for the entire project? I can answer this and let's move on. I think you need to look more closely with these butters and share that information offline. Okay. Rob, do you know the answer to that? This is approximately 18 months but I'm not 100% certain of that. Yeah. Thank you. Chairwoman Will certainly make sure they get all that info. Please. Thank you very much. With that, may I have a motion from the board? Is the BPDA provide a position? The BPDA approve this through the whatever I'm arguing with you. So there's not a separate, you know, they don't have like a separate recommendation from that. Okay. On that score, BPDA design review is not indicated because this is self-inland works and we've already received review and approval of the landmarks commission for the design of the building after four hearings. Okay. Thank you. So with that, I'd like to put forward a motion of a proposal with BPDA design review, paint special attention to the location and placement of the open egress shaft well and without a building code relief. Thank you. Do I have a second? So second fact. Yes, better than I was. Okay. Yes. Mr. Schupper. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Mimou. Yes. Mr. Laila. Yes. Mr. Stammeridge. Yeah. Chairwoman, yes, motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. All right. Home stretch. Next. We have B.O.A. 1376537. Addresses 229 Mavericks Street. Applicant 231 Mavericks Street LLC. Applicant seeking the construct Averyf Deck and its self-spiral circuits. The violations include e-spos and iPod Restricted Truth Structure Restrictions. Okay. Is the applicant here? Yes, I am. All right, Mr. Small. Can you walk us through briefly this proposal and the violations? Sure can. So we're going to have to do a Madam Chair and Mrs. Moore, 20 Derek Small. The business adjust of one adoption road, I represent the applicant. Today we are here to be believed to legalize the 1T by 4T Booth Deck and its self-spiral circuits and headhousing at this location. Two violations that we have are the spas and iPod and the restructure restrictions. If you can scroll down, that's fine, thanks Madam Ambassador. You'll see an aerial view of the roof deck and the headhousing at the spas and their casing. I'm afraid you scroll down one more or two more, keep going. It's a company by three unit building. The roof deck is one of the use of unit three only. So therefore a unit only. I just put out a little bit more. Let's see if it shows the roof deck is set back and is not visible from average at all. It goes to the 55 foot night regulation and the two buildings on the side of us are one story above our building. And so it does not show from average street. Let's go down a little bit more. Once again, go down. Try to see if you can speak to you. A little bit more. Some couple more I think you can see that it's not visible from average. Any event again, the roof deck is already constructed. And again, it's not visible for the street. I don't think this plan is showing the outside pictures or pictures from the street view. I'm showing that there to realize the size of us are both taller than this. And so we can end there. There should be letters about our. Thank you, Mr. Small. Mr. Professor, any questions about the plans? No, drawings are added. No questions. Thank you. Any questions from the board? No, chair. Look at that street view. Are there any other roof decks in this vicinity? Yeah, there are. As a number of buildings in this area have been renovated. Is that a gesture of question, Mr. Shepard? Yeah, how about anything like a building or a close proximity of a kind of asking? I'm not sure. But I think the building next to us is a, I think it's like a six or eight unit building. And I think that one has it as well. I'm not sure. I think there are particular concerns. Mr. Shepard, you want to raise or? I'll just see in how well I'm going to listen to the neighborhood. I guess I wasn't bothered to see feedback from the neighborhood. Got. And I think the, it's not visible from the street. Correct. That's correct. It's not visible from the street. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Okay, with, with, I know you're going to ask me. So let me offer BPD's recommendation is approval with proviso that plans be submitted to BPD for design review approval. Headhouse to be eliminated access to roof to be provided via hatch. With that, let me take public testimony. Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, calling our newman with the mayor's office and neighborhood services. The mayor's office looks deferred to the judgment of this board. Some background information in the community process. Our office element butters meeting in March 2022. I know about it for attendance. The association. The excuse me, the applicant met with the, the GO street citizens association multiple times to discuss the roof deck. Ultimately, they voted to be in support of the proposal with 16 members in support, not an opposition. I think that's why they see that they're okay with the roof deck, but to not appreciate that, that it was already built without proper permits. They would let us be sorry. I'm just kind of pricing through. Well, so much they would not like to see the current owner being penalized for this era. With that, we defer to the judgment of this board. Thank you. Thank you. Is there any other testimony? I'm no additional in hands. Thank you. With that, may I have a motion? Motion before. Do I have a second? Second. Miss, Miss Betta-Prazza? Yes. Mr. Shepherd. Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Miss Wewell? Yes. Mr. Langham? Yes. Mr. Stembridge? It's good about it, Chair. Thank you. The Chair votes yes, and just to confirm that's without a head house, correct, Mr. Small? Bell is quickly head house. Yeah, the head house is already in itself. Oh, it's already there. I see. Okay. Got it. Okay. Well, with that, we'll motion carries. Thank you, Madam Chair. I just want to go ahead and have a good day. It's been a long one. Yes, the house. All right. All right. Next we have V.O.A. 1327786 for 107 Marion Street. They're seeking to change occupancy from 3 to 4 family with a new basement unit. They're renovating the existing building, erecting a new 3 story rear debt. Their violations include extension of a non-conforming use, non-conforming use change. Off-street parking is sufficient. The use in the basement unit are both forbidden. East Boston, iPod applicability, Restructure, Restrictions, floor area ratio excessive. Hight is excessive with stories and feet, side yard insufficient. And the applicant is Dario Carvajal. Thank you. Madam Secretary, thank you, Madam Chair. Madam Chair, that was the board attorney Jeff Trego with Trego and Skano. With the business address of 11 Beacon Street here on behalf of Dario Carvajal. We also have David Choi, who's the architect on the proposal. As was mentioned, we're seeking to change the occupancy and we're looking at the existing conditions of the building from a 3 unit building to a floor unit and to create a basement ground level space. And you can see that that's raised above on the front. So that's exposed with a very steep grade on change as you go back. This will also include renovation city exterior property, which is badly needs. And then decks in the back are really small decks that are also going to be used as e-brest stairs as well. Currently all the units do have second means of e-brest. This would be an additional e-brest as well. This building will also be fully sprinkler and brought up to life safety standards as well. The lot size is 3000 square feet. And just this is if you go to the next slide, please. This is just an aerial view for precedent. So it's a multi-family all around us. There are some twos, but you can see the new building off to the rear. And then my client has the parking lot that is used for the tenant. So all of those spaces are used solely for this building for parking, for our street park. Just a layout if we go to the next slide. Sorry. Next slide after this. Thanks. Sorry. And one more. So we get into the plans again. Three of the units are existing, but this round level we're calling unit four would be a 983 square foot to bedroom to bath. It has eight foot ceiling heights, floor to ceiling height. Two full means of egress one through the front of the building. And then one to the side. And it also will contain egress windows as well. We go up to the first floor that houses our main entrance and houses unit one, which is a 926 square foot existing to bed one bath. And that would have the rare deck egress. Next slides, please. We then go up to the second floor, which is a thousand square foot three bedroom one bath that's existing with the deck and stairwell, a rare. Or would be a 1000 square foot same three bedroom one bath with the rare stairwell deck. Just to go over the violations that were mentioned. So many of these are pre existing, but obviously use. So going to that fourth basement unit, we would need use variances. FAR, which is a pre existing violation, but because we're adding in the space at that basement level that would increase the FAR to 1.5. Nothing changes on the side yard or the height. And again, we have the lot for parking. So that would also have plenty of space for the new unit inside as well. We were mistakenly cited for roof structural restrictions. So there's nothing changing to the roof. There's no roof debt proposed. No level being added. The only addition would be those rare decks and the stairwells in the back around us. Just for context, there's new building seven units. I'm Lexington Street. That's right to the side of us. There's four units at 87 Lexington. Four to six on Princeton. 127 marines. The barns large scale condo complex directly adjacent across the street. I can pause for any questions that the board may have. Thank you, Mr. Draco. Are there questions from the board? Yes, Madam Chair, I just want to understand, you know, make sure that roof structure restriction, you know, is the mistake do you have a plan we could see? Is there something? Yeah, if you go to one, two, three, six. If you keep going down, Jessica will get into elevations. And then you'll just see the top of the building one more slide. So right here. Okay. Maybe it's. Yeah, it's so we're not proposing any. Any structure. Well, are you extending the room? To that the stairwells could be from the deck in the rear. Yeah, they're that they reference that that could be it. Okay, no, yeah, maybe something. No headhouse, no structure on top or anything like that. Okay, thank you. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? It's a long day. Okay, well, let me read BPD's recommendation and then open it up for testimony. Yes, I'm sure BPD recommends approval with proviso that plans be submitted to BPD for design review with special attention to the proposed rear deck. Was that met? May I have testimony? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, corner, new and with the Marysoft's neighborhood services. At this time, the Marysoft's like deferred to the judgment. This board, some back information, the community process, our office host and the bloodish meeting in May of 2022. Two of our voters joined the meeting and voice concerns regarding what they perceived as privacy concerns around the rear decks with the applicant promising to work with them on looking into materials that would address some of those concerns. The applicant then went on to the association, the civic group for that area, which is the Eagle Hill civic association, meaning with them twice and the group voted to support this proposal in September of 2022. Without we deferred to the judgment of this board, I'm sorry, we did receive one letter of opposition, which I believe we forwarded over to you guys. Thanks. Thank you. Jessica, any other raised hands? I have no raised hands at the moment. Okay. Was that met? I have a motion. I think a motion to approve with the tributes though that the PDA designer view of the tension of the rear deck. And the second. The second. Ms. Betabraza. Yes. Mr. Shepard. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Wewell. Yes. Mr. Lennon. Yes. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. Motion carries. Okay. Final of the day. Last but not least, we have B.O.A. 139266-3, 437 Chelsea Street applicant, Rikia as gravy. They are seeking to raise the existing structure or active four unit residential dwelling with a roof deck. The area of the area is being built. The area of the area is being built. The area of the area is being built. The area of the area is being built. The area of the area is being built. The area of the area is being built. The area of the area is being built. The area of the area is being built. The area of the area is being built. The area of the area is being built. The area of the area is being built. The area of the area is being built. The area of the area is being built. The area of the area is being built. The area of the area is being built. The area of the area is being built. The area of the area is being built. The area of the area is being built. The area of the area is being built. The area of the area is being built. The area of the area is being built. The area of the area is being built. The area of the area is being built. The area of the area is being built. The area of the area is being built. The area of the area is being built. The area of the area is being built. The area of the area is being built. The area of the area is being built. The area of the area is being built. The area of the area is being built. The area of the area is being built. The area of the area is being built. The area of the area is being built. The area of the area is being built. The area of the area is being built. The area of the area is being built. The area of the area is being built. The area of the area is being built. The area of the area is being built. The area of the area is being built. The area of the area is being built. The area of the area is being built. The area of the area is being built. The area of the area is being built. The area of the area is being built. The area of the area is being built. The area of the area is being built. The area of the area is being built. The area of the area is being built. The area of the area is being built. The area of the area is being built. The area of the area is being built. The area of the area is being built. The area of the area is being built. The area of the area is being built. The area of the area is being built. The area of the area is being built. The area of the area is being built. The area of the area is being built. The area of the area is being built. The area of the area is being built. The area of the area is being built. The area of the area is being built. The area of the area is being built. The area of the area is being built. The area of the area is being built. The area of the area is being built. The area of the area is being built. The area of the area is being built. The area of the area is being built. The area of the area is being built. The area of the area is being built. The area of the area is being built. The area of the area is being built. The area of the area is being built. The area of the area is being built. The area of the area is being built. The area of the area is being built. The area of the area is being built. Okay, so on the left side, you do see 439, Chelsea, and then the proposed building at 437 is being rendered as well. I went with Eric Zapperson, the project architect. This property is located in the neighborhood shopping district, even though you do see a number of residential units. And this is somewhat of a transitional area because the site needs to be to our left. It's an left of 439 is a maritime economic reserve district. You do see a large vacant lot there. The zoning actually permits heights about to 55 feet and higher density for that that. That a lot of joining our lot. Our lot being in the neighborhood shopping district actually permits a multi family use. So the four unit to our proposing is allowed currently under Article 53. There is no minimum lot size, although we do have 1626 square feet. It is relatively consistent with both of the lots in that area. We do have a lot width of 25 feet again, no specific requirement for any lot width or side here and step back. We do set our building back on the left hand side for 3 1 1 1 2 feet, which allows for unprotected opening to windows. We do set our properties at the lot line on the right side. We did have conversations with the butter to our right. There you can see in the picture here. There is some conversation of plans for him to we develop his side as well. That building that sits on the line 435 Chelsea Street is in need of a little bit of TLC and he is looking at an option as well. So we had actually worked out the understanding that we would set our building at the lot line and certainly support any efforts he may have in the future to set his building at the lot lines well to the left side. We do have our modal setback which is consistent with what we have on that section of Chelsea Street. And we do have a Florida ratio 3.35, which right now currently under the neighbor shopping district is a 1.0 allowance. I would point out that it is consistent with the approved project for our left. There is an also additional approved project on Saratovich Street to our rear. There's also four stories for you in residential building as well. With respect to parking, this site does not propose having parking the immediate vicinity around this section of equal square does not have a huge parking issue. There is generally plenty of on street parking in this area. There are not a lot of residential uses as we go beyond our site as you advance down Chelsea Street. Simply the industrial uses that we see with fuel tanks and those other industrial facilities that have their own on street parking. The height of our building is proposed that the general height of the building is at 42 feet. You do see a head house that is proposed and I'll let Eric's accuracy discuss why we are incorporating that. So the height of that is actually 52 feet, but the bulk of our building since it's 42 and is in line with the building immediately to its left, which is previously approved. Other than that, with respect to the layout, if we want to jump ahead on the slides, we can go to slide 12, which shows the Florida Lands. We offer a pose and this to be slab on grade. There is no basement that's being proposed. However, we do show our first level, which would be accessible as a approximately 800 somewhat square feet below 800 feet. These are all two bedrooms. The upper level units are a little bit larger with the top level unit at the end of our 106th square feet and also getting a two bedroom. Eric, if you want to talk a little bit about why we proposed the head house that we did with respect to the roof deck, I did not meet up since we typically don't incorporate the head house. Yeah, thank you, Rich. Understanding that the head house is not the ideal situation in most cases. This project is on a relatively short lot and therefore the back stair was something that we realized we wanted to enclose or need to enclose because it's only three feet from the rear property line. In looking at how to create a little bit of open space for that top unit, we come and play that either extending the front stair, which is very close to the front of the building or the rear stair. In order to be in doing that, we'd be able to kind of keep these two bedrooms function. As you can see, there isn't a ton of extra space in there to squeeze a different staircase in. So we were left with a decision to either extend the front stair and have a hatch very close to the front of the property or extend the rear stair. But the rear stair is enclosed because it's so close to the property lines on the right and on the rear. So in this case, we elected to extend the rear stair up rather than have something more visible on the front of the project and still have the able to have that roof deck space, it's open space for the project. Thank you. With that, I'm happy to answer any questions. Hopefully I didn't take more time than necessary. No, thank you. I knew you. To some of my questions, so I will see if anyone else has from the board has any questions. Madam Chair, to see if you can provide a recommendation. I think it's a good question. Eric, did you design for $39? Yes, quite the same client. You did. Did it have a penthouse as well? So it's site is a little bit longer, so it has an open rear stair to the top of the roof deck. I think it's a little bit longer than the previous one. I think it's a little bit longer than the previous one. But there's only three feet behind this one. Okay, just because you used as a reference. Yeah, otherwise the buildings are very similar other than enclosing the rear stair. And in regards to this neighborhood. And so if it was up to me, I would say, or I would recommend to defer, to allow for BPDA to review the project, but to get on the next, you know, the next month hearing. Just because I think that some of my concerns are. You know, in terms of like development, if we have a radio corner precedent that is for story. We, we approve this project, you know, again. With very similar character of the one that just prevailed to the God Proof. I don't have any reference to that project. Do, does that then allow the same type of. So, in any way, to do four stories moving forward, you know, so I just, I just would love to get a little bit more. Contacts from BPDA because we're looking only specifically at this project. But I need kind of just because you began to reference the building next to it. So I, you know, it allows for that kind of conversation. I'm sorry. Yeah, so that I'm just talking out loud to in conversation with my more members. There's no, there's no. Yeah, yeah. So, so that's my opinion, but you, you guys can put forward emotions as well. Madam Chair, I may. Mr. Lin's also just add to that. Remind us why you're here for the rediscussion. Sure. So in, and thank you, Madam Chair, in response to this better bar. I'm very, very good point about, you know, the BPDA not having their recommendation. We originally presented for 39, which is the building and it's for our last. I believe that was in November. And we were anticipated because we have these on the same track to have this presented at the same time. Obviously for purposes of, you know, demonstrating to the board that this work, these were similar sites or similar projects. The BPDA did recommend approval on the 439 project. I believe that is in their records. I don't know why they did make a recommendation on this project. However, I don't believe, I think they review it once and I'm not necessarily sure they'll go back and review it again. So my only concern is if we request the BPDA go back and review this again, they may not, they may not do that. I'm not sure that all. That's why I, that's why I would put a forward motion to defer to provide BPDA to review the project. Unless Tom can also give me, Tom, can you provide me with a decision for following my terms of providers that will put on the project? Yes, Mr. Burranzo. Let me just look it up real quick. I think it's that. So why don't we continue with any other questions? As Tom looks it up, I did have one other point Madam Chair. I mean, I think we're late in the day. As part of planning is Boston, I believe this is at our target to add our four because it is boulevard or squares with some of the recommendations that are being for for New Zoning in each Boston. And that does recognize increased height and increased density. So four stories is from what I understand the norm and that's one of the reasons why the recommendation was made for 439 Chelsea to allow for the four stories. That's one of these why where I think, but for the fact that we were delayed because of the notice issue, we would have heard these in tandem at the same time. Perhaps that recommendation was shed some light on this project as well. So I just want to make sure I'm back there for that. Thank you. We can also see hopefully see if on us can shed some light on the public process to the process. Are there other questions from the board? Mr. Rosas is Tom before to prove 439 with the proviso to go to the BPA to provide access to the Rube Deck via hatch rather than a pet house. That was the only provide though. And that was in the BPD provided a recommendation for approval for story for that project. It's possible I'll have to work at the actual physical file. So I don't have any. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Maru, share I'm just looking at the. Thank you. I'm just looking at the Google map. This is a satellite picture and it seems that part of the neighborhood in Russia is here, but also across the project. There are all tanks that is also highway in the area. So I don't think that the impact of this project will create on the neighborhood will be as big as the old tanks in the highway that is flying behind that block. Just looking at the context because we didn't have like a way of side plan showing the above. So I was just looking at that and that is what I was thinking. Correct. Thank you. Thank you. That's helpful context. Yeah, and through the chair, this is located directly across from a industrial site, which is a fish processing facility, which is located across the square as well. So it's a relatively industrial area that is seeing some renewed interest for residential or new residential. And it is your rate housing. That is correct. Thank you. Less this area. I'm just going to ask you to take a look at the area. I'm going to ask you to take a look at the area. I'm going to ask you to take a look at the area. I'm going to ask you to take a look at the area. I'm going to ask you to take a look at the area. I'm going to ask you to take a look at the area. I'm going to ask you to take a look at the area. I'm going to ask you to take a look at the area. I'm going to ask you to take a look at the area. I'm going to ask you to take a look at the area. I'm going to ask you to take a look at the area. I'm going to ask you to take a look at the area. I'm going to ask you to take a look at the area. I'm going to ask you to take a look at the area. I'm going to ask you to take a look at the area. I'm going to ask you to take a look at the area. I'm going to ask you to take a look at the area. I'm going to ask you to take a look at the area. I'm going to ask you to take a look at the area. I'm going to ask you to take a look at the area. I'm going to ask you to take a look at the area. I'm going to ask you to take a look at the area. I'm going to ask you to take a look at the area. I'm going to ask you to take a look at the area. I'm going to ask you to take a look at the area. I'm going to ask you to take a look at the area. I'm going to ask you to take a look at the area. I'm going to ask you to take a look at the area. I'm going to ask you to take a look at the area. I'm going to ask you to take a look at the area. I'm going to ask you to take a look at the area. I'm going to ask you to take a look at the area. I'm going to ask you to take a look at the area. I'm going to ask you to take a look at the area. I'm going to ask you to take a look at the area. I'm going to ask you to take a look at the area. I'm going to ask you to take a look at the area. I'm going to ask you to take a look at the area. I'm going to ask you to take a look at the area. I'm going to ask you to take a look at the area. I'm going to ask you to take a look at the area. I'm going to ask you to take a look at the area. I'm going to ask you to take a look at the area. I'm going to ask you to take a look at the area. I'm going to ask you to take a look at the area. I'm going to ask you to take a look at the area. I'm going to ask you to take a look at the area. I'm going to ask you to take a look at the area. Thank you very much and thank you for your time today. Thank you. Sherry, just a heads up. There is someone who needs to object by the room with some of the board members at four o'clock. Okay. This will be quick. Okay. Perfect. Super duper fast. Hello, I'm looking for one. Hello. I'm looking for one. I don't know if you recognize me, but I wanted to know what you all know. I spoke with Madam Chair. And I'm looking for one. I'm looking for one. I'm looking for one. I'm looking for one. I'm looking for one. I'm looking for one. The board members and the board membersrue. I'm looking for one. I'm looking for one. Okay. Don't trust me say that she's seen me. I'm looking for one. So I'm about to find out she's seen me. Tell you we're seeing me. Tell you we're seeing me. Tell you we're seeing me. Tell you we're seeing you. Okay. Seize our rail. Again. No, trust me. lar opus, please. I�, we're seeing me. I�. I�, we're seeing you. I�, we're seeing you. I�, we're losing the screen. I�, we're almost at the sky today. Where are you focusing at night? I�, because I'm holding on to your eyes. Let me have a motion to retain some. I said. Well, I want to know everyone out. Where are you going? I'm going to City Hall to be a government service in Toronto, for the city. So also we want to be just in a different role representing other citizens. We've caused them too much headache in our short time. All of the things that they need to work. We want to be a government service. We want to be a government service. We want to be a government service. We want to be a government service. We want to be a government service. We want to be a government service. We want to be a government service. We want to be a government service. We want to be a government service. We want to be a government service. We want to be a government service. We want to be a government service. We want to be a government service. We want to be a government service. We want to be a government service. We want to be a government service. We want to be a government service. We want to be a government service. We want to be a government service. We want to be a government service. We want to be a government service. We want to be a government service. We want to be a government service. We want to be a government service. We want to be a government service. We want to be a government service. We want to be a government service. We want to be a government service.