 you you you the city of Boston zoning board of appeal hearing for March 24, 2026 is now in session. This hearing is being conducted in accordance with the applicable provisions of the open meeting law including the updated provisions enacted by the legislature this year. The new law allows the board to continue its practice of holding virtual hearings through June 2027. This hearing of the board of being held remotely via the Zoom webinar event platform and is also being live-streamed. In order to ensure this hearing of the board is open to the public, members of the public may access this hearing through telephone and video conferencing. The information for connecting to this hearing is listed on today's hearing agenda which is posted on the public notices page of the city's website Boston.gov. Members of the public will enter the virtual hearing as attendees which means you will not see yourself on the screen and you will be muted throughout unless administratively unmuted when asked to comment. Board members applicants and their attorneys or representatives will participate in the hearing as panelists and they will appear alongside the presentation materials when speaking. panelists are strongly encouraged to keep video on while presenting to the board. As with our in-person meetings comments and support will be followed by comments in opposition. The order of comments is as follows. Elected officials, representatives of elected officials and members of the public. The chair may limit the number of people called upon to offer comment and the time for commenting as time constraints require. For that reason, the board prefers to hear from members of the public who are most impacted by a project. That is those individuals who will post us to the project. If you wish to comment on an appeal, please click the raise hand button along the bottom of your screen in the Zoom webinar platform. Click it again and your hand should go down. When the host sees your hand, you will receive a request to unmute yourself. Select yes and you should be able to talk. If you are connected to the hearing by telephone, please press star 9 to raise and lower your hand. You must press star 6 to unmute yourself after you receive the request from the host. Those called upon to comment will be asked to state their name and address first and then can provide their comment. In the interest of time and to ensure that you have enough time to do so, please raise your hand as soon as Mr. Stembridge reads the address into the record. Do not raise your hand before the relevant address is called or the meeting host will not know to call on you at the appropriate time. We ask that you keep your comments brief and all public testimony will be limited to 90 seconds per speaker. Mr. Stembridge. Good morning, Madam Chair. Good morning, Mr. Valencia. Good morning, Madam Chair. Good morning, Madam Chair. Good morning, Madam Chair. Good morning, Mr. Collins. Good morning, Madam Chair. Good morning, Mr. Bernal. He will be joining us in a few minutes. Okay. I will floor as yours, Mr. Stembridge. Thank you, Madam Chair. We'll begin today's hearing with the approval for our hearing minutes. These minutes are from March 26, March 20, March 10, 2026. I'll put forward a motion of approval. Madam Second. Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Turner. Yes. Ms. Pannaudow. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Ms. Bernal with that, Chef? Okay. The Chair votes yes. The motion carries. So just a note. We are currently six number board. Next, we'll go to the extension schedule for 9.30 AM. I'll read all of the all the men as they appear reasonable. We'll go to the extension schedule for the next section. We'll go to the extension schedule for the next section. We'll go to the extension schedule for the next section. We'll go to the extension schedule for the next section. We'll go to the extension schedule for the next section. We'll go to the extension schedule for the next section. We'll go to the extension schedule for the next section. We'll go to the extension schedule for the next section. We'll go to the extension schedule for the next section. We'll go to the extension schedule for the next section. We'll go to the extension schedule for the next section. We'll go to the extension schedule for the next section. We'll go to the extension schedule for the next section. We'll go to the extension schedule for the next section. We'll go to the extension schedule for the next section. We'll go to the extension schedule for the next section. We'll go to the extension schedule for the next section. We'll go to the extension schedule for the next section. Is it turning Ross present? Is anyone present for 111 terrorist street? I don't see anybody. Doesn't appear to be anyone present for that one. I think it's the legal council can answer this question. This project, 111 terrorist street, is asking for the fifth extension. I just wanted to ask, I think it's the legal council. How many times can we extend a project? If the project has been out, what mentioning was approved a year ago. How much time do they need to fill it out if they can accomplish this or not? I just don't want to keep postponing and postponing projects for every little bit. I don't really know whether they can't enhance from the developer. So Carol and George here. She is here, yes. Yes, you know what? So it's after discretion of the board to approve or deny extensions. The only caveat is that the governor did sign the Primitive Extension Act. So if it was active from, I believe, 2023 to 2025, it's automatically extended. I'd have to check on the dates for this one. But again, that's the board's discretion. Unless it was already active during that period. Thank you. Also, if the board's more comfortable, you can also defer this extension request so that I can look into it more for the dates. It's up to the board. I'd like to recommend on the defer this case. So next time Mr. Ross and comment, tell us more about the case in what is the situation of this project. Before we get out of the night extension. Okay, so there's a motion to defer this one case. Is there a second? Second? Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Mr. Turner? Yes. Mr. Panado? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Has Mr. Bernal joined us? Okay. Chair votes, yes. The motion carries. With that, is there a motion to grant the remaining extensions as requested? Is there a second? Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Mr. Turner? Yes. Mr. Panado? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Chair votes, yes. The motion carries. Next, we have discussion. This will be a discussion on the open meeting law. We've got February 24th, 2026 here in 154 terrorist street. This is BOA 1261313 slash ART. 1, 2, 4, 0, 3, 5, 5 appeal. Yes. The board initially heard this appeal on January 18th, 2022, which time the applicant saw zoning relief to construct a seven-story residential building containing 66 condominium units with on-street parking for 24 vehicles. On November 25th, 2025, the board voted to grant a three-year extension of the previously approved zoning relief extending the relief through November 25th, 2028. On February 24th, 2026, the board considered the project under its board final arbiter process and voted to approve a series of minor modifications. These revisions included reducing the building height from 76 stories, decreasing the floor area ratio by 0.94, reducing the total unit count by one and converting the units from home ownership to our toll. This approval was granted separate to the divisive of the applicant entering to a housing agreement with the mayor's office of housing. That's a pinlay on March 16th, 2026. David E. May not acting on behalf of his tenants association filed an open meeting on complaint, a wedging method board, and properly denied members of the public the opportunity to provide public testimony. Okay, so just to confirm at this time, we are just acknowledging receipt of the complaint. This is not a hearing about the case and we are not discussing the case. Is there a motion? Is there a motion to refer the matter to ISD legal to prepare a response on behalf of the board? I'll make a motion to refer the matter to ISD legal as well as a separate air response on behalf of the board. There are second, second, Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Turner. Yes. Ms. Panado. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Chair votes, yes. The motion carries. Next, we'll move on to the recommendations scheduled for 9.30 a.m. These are from the recent subcommittee on March 19th. The recommendations were approved. I'll read through them and we can take a vote on them at the end. First, we have case B.O.A. 173-3276 with the address of 29 on three. Next, we have case B.O.A. 1803304 with the address of 661 East Broadway. Next, we have case B.O.A. 179-2077 with the address of 658 East 5th Street. Next, we have case B.O.A. 180210 with the address of 535 to 545 Dudley Street. Next, we have case B.O.A. 1802.8 401 with the address of 95 on the street. Next, we have case B.O.A. 172.5252 with the address of 130 Dana Avenue. Next, we have case B.O.A. 179-0093 with the address of 62 Dunster Road. Next, we have case B.O.A. 180106 with the address of 268 Chesson Avenue. And finally, we have case B.O.A. 179-8926 with the address of 15 Burstant Avenue. Those are recommendations, recommendations approved from the recent subcommittee. Any questions from the board? May I have a motion? A motion to approve those subcommittee recommendations. Is there a second? 39. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Canado. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Yes. We have a motion. Mr. Bernal. Yes. Okay. The chair votes. Yes. The motion carries. Next, we'll move on to the hearing schedule for today at 9.30 AM. Before we go into the cases, we'll ask if there are any request for withdrawals or deferrals from the 9.30 AM here. We'll begin with case B.O.A. 180-5958 with the address of 445-449 Cambridge Street. This is an article 80 case. And we'll ask if the applicant and or they represent a death present to explain the case to them more. Good morning. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. I'm attorney, GI, argument of Notre McClellan and the Fish on behalf of the petitioner, X-QWERTY, Capitol for this mixed-years project. Ben Howard, Senate of SCB Architects will present the drawings and George Ledwith from the next courties on the line to answer any questions. If you go to the first slide, please. Next slide. This is a long-primating history, so I'll cover the first few slides before the architect takes over. There's a rendering looking at the looking to the northwest. Next slide, please. The site is shaded in red. It's an awesome north side of Cambridge Street between Harvard Avenue and Brighton Avenue. Neighborhood has been changing over from auto-body shops, tow yards, other auto and industrial uses since before COVID. The building you see at the top left is on the rug. It's known as 4D to 80 Rook and has opened fairly recently. For the previous owner, I was before you in 2021 for a more complex version of this project. It's actually on two sites. So it was an L-shaped building on the red shaded area and then across Emory Road, you see the patch of tow yard. There was a small building there. It's a total of 152 dwelling units. That project was not financial. The project sold. Extension has been granted as most recently as last fall while we came up with a feasible project. This petitioner is going to buy the adjacent lot at 445 Cambridge Street so they can build an efficient building on a single city block that you see. The trapezoidal shape is 200 units. There'll be 29 affordable units which still exceeds the IDP policy before. Over 17% of leaseable area will be affordable. Eight of those units will be for artists. We're able to more than double the usable open space as you can see shown in green to the right. It's about 7,500 square feet and there's a more coherent larger retail space maintained on Cambridge Street. Next slide please. I'm not going to linger on these streetscapes in the interest of time but we have them if the board needs us to come back to them. Next slide. The requested zoning relief is the same set as in 2021. Went through large project then and went through again. We got a vote at the BRA board on January 15th and parking was set in an onsite garage at 66 spaces. Although the neighborhood has largely changed over to multi-family as I said at this site, at this scale and height, the zoning is still outdated. So for the first 100 feet back from Cambridge Street, it's a community commercial zoning and multi-family requires additional use permit. The rest of the site and the whole neighborhood going back to the turnpike is still industrial zoning. So all the multi-family projects that you've been seeing require a variance as this one did in 2021. The proposed height is six stories on Cambridge Street but it slopes back and it rises to just under 70 feet and seven stories in the back. That also requires a variance as it did in 2021. The proposed floor area is a little bit lower than before in 2021 for technical reasons. At 4.7 that still requires a variance. Finally I mentioned we more than double the usable open space but that still requires a variance. Next slide please. I'm going to turn it over to Ben Harrison and he'll take you through the details. Thank you. Hello everyone, I'm Ben Harrison from SCB. I'll walk you through some of the architectural elements of this project. We are right around 150,000 square feet and I just previously mentioned 200 units including both IDP and artist IDP units with 350. 3500 square feet of retail along the corner of Robert and Cambridge and usable space split between both private patios and open amenity for building and it was pretty much as building is just below 70 feet above aperture. 60 spaces will be in the lower level as well as 126 out like parking spaces. We've located the entrance to the parking on the north side of the site to alleviate congestion along Cambridge. As you can see here there's a notable grade change about 15 feet from Cambridge to the corner of Rox. This lower level is partially submerged. On the north corner we do have two town homes, two Plex units, next slide please. The main floor we have our residential lobby on the corner of Emily and Cambridge as well as a larger retail space including a double height retail space along the corner of Cambridge and Rox onto the neck. We also have amenity spaces here in the middle including fitness and artists space for those previously mentioned artists IDP units. On the second floor we have our outdoor primary outdoor amenity terrace that is split between private patios for units on this floor as well as open space for the building consisting of grill seating and planted area. Next slide please. Our typical floor you can see here is previously described as a C shaped building all units consisting of studios, one bedrooms, two bedrooms and three bedrooms. At the roof level we do have a larger amenity roof terrace roughly 2000 square feet that we feel have great views of the city. This combined with the outdoor amenity and the terraces comprises the roughly 7500 square feet of open space onto the next slide. As was previously mentioned we do a very large grade change so this is the elevation along Cambridge which will be six stories above grade where the height of the building will be around 70 square feet above average grade onto the next slide. This shows that kind of grade change here along Emory, couple notable elements on the facade are a series of art betrays that will be used for artists display for our generated within the building as well as community outreach. Next slide. Again, same grade change working out way more towards the Emory site you can see here on the northernmost site at corner of Emory and rug that's where we see those seven stories. Next slide. There we two murals proposed along the rug road. This is also the elevation that our level to amenity deck will be as well. And a series of additional arts for trans spaces here as you can kind of see that view of the corner of Cambridge and rug. This is that double height retail space there on the corner residential units of 12 are two murals as well as a series of balconies that overlook the Cambridge streetscape. And then next slide. A series of community benefits have been agreed to including Cambridge street revitalization a series of contributions to local organizations public realm enhancement. As well as comes over supporting the affordable and artist housing programs. Next slide. Here are the previously submitted drawings. I don't believe there's much value in lingering on these we can flip through these for reference. But other than that, that really concludes the architectural elements we wanted to present today. Thank you. Questions from the board? Yes, the green space or the placent that you are proposing are going to be open to the public or it's just for the residents in the building. Just for the residents in the building, we did discuss with Boston planning department staff the feasibility of making it open to the general public. But for this project scale and the layout it was not possible. Okay, thank you. Questions from the board? Matt, share with some comments made by the disabilities commission. I'm wondering if the developers are aware of those. Would you like to stay thumb for the record? Good one. Disability comment commission comments are units 110 and 111 are multi lovely units with no accessible route between fours. All units and building with an elevated must be through one accessible. 225, 525, 21, CMR 9.3. There must be an accessible route to all parts of the units. I hope 521 CMR 9.5, 9.5.4. Would they have to get like to just comment from the disabilities commission? I defer to George Ledwith or the architect. I wasn't aware of that comment. I was not aware of those comments as well. And I do believe that those 110 and 111 could be the town homes that have all street access versus going through the lobby. But we can address those. Unfortunately, we did not receive those comments previously. Thank you. Would that be a public testimony? Yes, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Conor Newman with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. The Assembly is obviously to defer to the judge for this board. Some information in the community process. This went through a lengthy BPA led community process back when I was a neighborhood liaison. More recently with this project notification change. We're in contact with the IAG as well as connecting with the Austin Civic Association. The Austin Civic Association was supportive of this change with the provisor that there be no building co-relief be granted. And also do consideration be given to minimize the rental of units to undergraduate students as you're aware. There's a high percentage of students that are in the Austin area. And often the Civic Association asks that a proponents make a commitment to not rent to 200 grads without defer to the board. Thank you. Next, we have Andrew from Conor Murphy's Office. Hello, Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is Andrew Galvin. I work in Conor Murphy's Office. Conor Murphy would like to go on record in opposition of this project. Thank you. Next, we have my note betters. Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Madam Chair, members of the board. This is my not for rights representing thousands of unit carpenters that live in Wartor, I see their boss. And at this moment we're going to take, we're going to go on opposition of this project. And we ask respectfully of the board to defer this case. So we are able to engage in further conversations with the developer. It is very important for our state developers and local developers to understand and need to make a good thing ever on working with local groups. Thank you so much. Thank you. Next, we have Dan from the 10th section. Dan? Yes. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. Thank you for the opportunity to speak. My name is Daniel Daly. I live at 14 Madeline Street in Brighton. I'm a lifelong Austin Brighton resident. And I'm also a business representative of the Faloco 103 with the electrician's union. Boston needs housing and our residents need jobs. This residential proposal can help address both by creating real opportunities for the men and women who live here, support our small businesses and vote in our elections. I personally have closely followed this project for many years through community activism. It's a positive sign to see this amended version ready to move forward as many approved projects in my neighborhood are staying dormant. So I'm in full support of this proposal. Thank you so much. Thank you, Madam. Last person, we have been sent. Colleal? Yes, hi. My name is Vincent Colleal. Business manager with the I work as a local 7. I'm here to speak in support of the proposed residential development at 445 Cambridge Street. This project fits in the context of the surrounding neighborhood with a multitude of other residential projects in the area having received similar zoning relief and are now under construction or near completion. Projects like this create good paying construction jobs for Boston's building trades and support their working families. Development projects generate months of work for skilled union trades people across many different trades. As you know, a version of this project was already approved by the zoning board of appeals in 2021, but this proposal represents a more refined and buildable version consolidated on a single lot making it better position to be delivered. The project includes meaningful contributions to local organizations like a million dollars to the Austin Brighton Community Development Corporation and Austin Village Main Streets. Those investments help ensure that the benefits of development extend to the broader community. I respectfully encourage the board to support this project. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Madam Chair. We have no additional comments. Thanks. Questions, other questions from the board? Will this be a union project or is that just on the side of the wall? That is undecided at the moment. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Will you have a motion? I'll make a motion to approve. There a second? Second. Okay. Mr. Stumbridge. Yeah. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Panado. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Bernal. Yes. Chair votes yes, the motion carries. Thank you very much. Next, we have case BLA 18070750 with the address of 12 Maple Street. It's the applicant and will they represent our president? But then we'll be trying to case the board. Yes. Thank you, Mr. Stumbridge. Madam Chair, members of the board, Attorney Ryan Spitz, with that is a emergency business address of 168H Street, First Floor. So Boston, joining me today is the owner, Jim O'Donovan, in the project architect Jonathan Stone. This is a proposal to preserve the existing structure and erect a new vertical and redder addition to contain a total of six units with 10 parking spaces located in the rear. Two units will be located in the existing structure and four units will be located in the rear of the structure. The proposal falls within a 1F6000 sub-district, which requires relief for use. However, this is a very large parcel consisting of almost 16,000 square feet. Six units on a 16,000 square foot lot bring overall density closer in alignment with the existing conditions. It's close proximity to the center street further supports the project's density located near transit in the commercial corridor, in the erection of a multi-family dwelling, which is in line with the planning goals of 2030 while increasing the city's housing stock. If I can direct your attention, Mr. O'Madam Ambassador to page a1.01 through a1.02. Units 1 and 2 will be located. Ambassador, if we could just have you change the drawings please to a1.01 through a1.02. Those pages are at the bottom right hand of the drawings. I'll continue our Madam Chair. Units 1 and 2 will be located within the existing structure and will each contain two bedrooms. Units 1 is located on the first floor and Units 2 will be located on the second floor. There will also be a common area that connects the existing structure and the addition. Units 4 and 6 will be located in the addition. There will be a basement for storage only. Units 3 and 4 will consist of one bedroom on the first floor. Units 5 and 6 will be by level, three bedroom units located on the second and the third floor. We have additional violations for height. We have a violation in stories. The maximum building height is 2.5 stories. Despite the violations, plans show that the building's characteristics are consistent with the neighborhood context. We have a floor area ratio violation. Requirement here is a point four in this sub-district. And our proposal calls for a slight increase at a point five. I'd like to note there are several examples of homes that exceed the FAA requirement in the immediate vicinity. We have a side yard setback violation. The minimum requirement as we are considered in other use is 12 feet rather than the 10 foot typical requirement here. The right hand side of the existing property is pre-existing five feet four inches. In the addition is at 10 feet. So therefore we do have the side backs of that requirement. In sufficiency open space will be the last violation. We have 1800 square feet is required for each dwelling in this proposal call start 1122 square feet per unit. Which still provides an open space for a project of this scope. And plus given that it's very close proximity to a lot of open space that buildings failed. At this point Madam Chair, I'm going to turn it over to the board for any questions or comments. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Can you address the parking ratio? I believe you said six units and 10 parking spaces. Yes. Great question. Ms. Pano. So going through the community process. We're trying to balance. You know, the one of the biggest issues that we heard was about parking. Provided six units. So what we try to do is provide something a little bit more additional than the one for one parking. So we did provide 10 and even still at that point in time the community was asking us to provide more parking. But no, we felt that 10 was was pretty reasonable for this type of proposal. Is there on street parking and resident parking in this area? There is on street parking as well. And that was the biggest concern. I guess parking constraints have been tight in this neighborhood. Just like in any portion of the city of Boston parking seems to be the number one issue. We provided trying to provide a little bit more than the one for one parking which is required by the transportation's new department of policy regarding parking. Thank you. I want to show that I agree with Ms. Pano's concern about the parking looking at the side of the plan. Most of the open spaces for the driveway in the parking. I know there are three or four MBTA bus lines in the area. So street parking and the department is recommending you to reduce the parking count. So have you had more conversations with the department of all? No, I'm well. Ms. Jettin, the open space. Mr. Valencia, again, another great question. So we haven't had any direct conversation as the planning department typically does not get involved in any projects outside of our community. We are well aware of their proposal. So even if you guys decided to provide or reducing the parking, if it was reduced by their proposed amount of two spaces coming from the planning department, this would not create a zoning violation. We would still be compliant with the eight parking spaces that we would have. And if I could suggest that if that is something that the board deems a fifth or a project like this, my suggestion would be potentially to remove parking spaces 9 and 10. As that would provide an additional adequate more of a screening and offering to those neighbors in the rear as well. Thank you, Chair. Mayor of public testimony. Madam Chair and board members, good morning. Sige Johnson with the Office of Neighborhood Services. This applicant completed the community process. Our office hosted in a butter's meeting on January 7th, at which concerns were raised about the lot coverage with the butter's wanting less density, some wanting more parking, one of butter raised a concern about a lack of open space and wanted more open space. There were concerns from the rear of butter about the rear yard setback with a balcony looking directly into the property on the rear. There were a number of concerns about insufficient buffering of the large parking area. There were a number of butter supporting the application due to the very large lot size and the positive reputation of the owner in the community. Our office received one letter of opposition to the original proposal. However, revisions have been made to the proposal since that time. The West Rocksbury Neighborhood Council heard this application and was divided and took no position on it. With that background, our office deferred judgment to the board. Thank you. Thank you. Let's move on to the end. Hi, do you have a name? Thank you. I'm a neighbor about four houses out from this proposed building. I basically object in the terms of this is going to drastically change the character of our neighborhood, which is primarily single owned homes and two family homes where at least one unit is owner occupied. I have very strong feelings that introducing this number of rental units to our neighborhood is going to change it negatively with traffic, with turnover. I'm a resident. I own my property. This is what I see happening if this proposal is agreed upon. I would have no problem with the main house becoming condominiums to units. To put them in a position that's really important, potentially one unit in the back. I just see what's being proposed is to dance to crowded and negative in position on our street. Thank you. Next week up, Maria. I'm going to live on a set of street grew up here my whole life plus Roxbury and I think more housing is always good, especially if you're providing off-street parking. I do believe that multi-units are kind of the next wave of what needs to happen to provide more housing for people, I have family and friends who are young work professionals trying to move back to West Roxbury, it's very difficult. So if you can do that with off-street parking and not clog up the neighborhood, keep the charm of the neighborhood, be able to walk down the streets and shop local basis, that's one thing to me, so I'm going to support this project. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Nice, we got Brian mail? Oh yeah, Brian mail, some 91-Legrarian in Street, West Roxbury. I'm just calling to support this project. The city doesn't need additional housing, I think the location down at the beginning of Maple Street fits with the commercial district as well as convenience, utility bus lines and train lines, etc. Oh wait, this is the first set of hotels that you have planned out town. Yeah, no, you should have. Can you mute? I'm sorry, can the speaker who was speaking continue? Yes, sure. I just, sorry, it's really convenient to the bus lines and train lines for the potential rents as well and the off-street parking that's been shown and provided is the bonus. So thank you. Thank you. Madame Chair, there are no additional comments. Okay, can that be a have a motion? I'll make a motion to prove with us in planning department reviews, special attention to reducing parking from 10 to 8 spots. Can I have a second? Safe, please. Mr. Stambridge? I'll vote no. I believe the parking is fine. There's plenty of open space in the neighborhood. I believe the parking, those additional parking spaces would be a bonus. So I'll hold now. Mr. Valencia? I vote yes, especially since the most required development of those parking and increase open space for the residents. As I mentioned before, there are at least four bus lines in the area. Mr. Turner, I vote yes. Mr. Pignato? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Mr. Bernal? Yes. Chair votes yes, the motion carries. Thank you. Next we have case B.O.A. 179, 6244, with the address of 30 Webster Street. It's the applicant and who are their representative of the president. Would their police respond to any reports? Thank you, Secretary Stambridge. Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board. My name is Gary Webster. I'm the president of Tars Development Company. I'll see with the business address of 49 Madness Street Unit 2 and Dorchester. Here on behalf of the current property owners, the project before you proposed this to renovate the existing single-family home, including a rare in front addition with the extension of living space into the attic. With the proposed renovations resulting in a requested change of occupancy from a single family to a two-family home. I'm joined today by Gavin Druskore of Lighthouse Architects and Design, who will now go over the design as it relates to the zoning violations and I'll be happy to answer any questions that the board may have at the conclusion of the presentation. Good morning. Thank you for having me. Gavin Druskore, Lighthouse Architects and Design. This is a change of occupancy from one family to a two-family. It's going to be a renovation in an addition. We are reconfiguring the existing roof lines on the third floor as the ceiling height is insufficient up there and also for previous water damage. If you can scroll down please to the next slide. This is the existing site plan showing that we are squaring off the rear of the property and then adding a second stair for the second means egress for the second unit. If you can scroll down please. This is the proposed unit number one in green. There will be two duplex units. Unit one will be around 1450 square feet for that two bath and the basement will just be storage. If you can scroll to the next slide. You can see in the green that's the duplex unit for unit one and then in yellow is unit two which is also 1450 square feet for a bed two and a half baths. If you can scroll down to the elevations, one more slide please. For the proposed elevations it's a reconfiguring of what's there now. We try to keep the existing architectural characteristics on the bottom part of the house. Because of the upper floor, because of water damage from before and the low ceiling heights we reconfigured the third floor for the additional living space. If there's any questions I can take those from here. Thank you. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? Hearing none may I have public testimony. Madam Chair and members of the board for the record. My name is Jeremy Bembery. I'm the head Mark Community Engageant Specialist for the Office of Neighborhood Services. The applicant has completed the community process which consists of a notebook is meeting facilitate to not December 11th but no but as present no concerns were raised. Next the component is entered to Hyde Park Neighborhood Association on January 8th and with no stance they can be completed the community process. The data office has not received any further community feedback. Thank you for your time and the most office of new participants would like to defer to the board for the judgment. Thank you. Thank you. Next we have is Susan. Yes, hi. I'm a resident at two houses down. My concerns are the business of the property. It's going to be cutting into the next house's line. And right now we have very little parking here. So we're very concerned with extra cars parking here. On Saturdays we cannot even take our own cars out because of the church across the street. And the other thing is most of the homes that are here are lived in by the owners. Our concern is they're going to be an owner living in one of these units. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Robster, do you want to address any of those concerns? I can address the concerns as they relate to the parking. The existing structure does not have off-street parking. And to create off-street parking we would have to take out a retaining wall that's been there. I can't date it. It's a very overtaining wall with a sloping site with a close proximity to the neighboring property. It would have made it very difficult to excavate that site and add off-street parking. And in terms of the end product, I think the trend right now is to be able to afford things in the city. People are trying to buy multi-unit and gain rental income from one of the other properties. Whether it's a three family or two family. If you can be on the occupied and get rental producing income from the other tenants, then that's right now is the best way to afford anything in the city. So we anticipate that the end user will be on the occupied structure there. But we can't guarantee that. But that is the goal of the project. Thank you. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? May I have a motion? Make a motion for the crew. For a second. Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yep. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Panado. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Bernel. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. The motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Next we have case. BOA 18025. 570. With the address of 21 to Tina Avenue. It's the applicants and will they represent the president? Will they please fund the case of the board? Hi, good morning, everyone. Good morning, Madam Chair. Good morning, members of the board. My name is Taneel Cooper and I will be presented on 21 to the half. Okay, to start. We are seeking zoning relief to construct a two family home on our 3600 square foot lot. The proposal requires a modest set that and relief due to the dimensional constraints of the lot. Our lot measures 40 times. Sorry, ma'am. Thank you. Thank you. It's. Thank you. If you can go to the third slide, please. Perfect. So our lot measures 45 by 80 feet total in the 3600 square feet. Zoning requires 20 feet in the front, 30 feet in the rear, and 10 feet on each side. Due to the narrow lot dimensions, full compliance will make it hard to construct a functional two family home while maintaining reasonable room sizes. So we are requested a modest, dimensional relief of 10 feet in the front. I mean, excuse me, 5 feet in the front, 10 feet in the rear, and 3 feet on each side. The proposal remains within the 35 foot height limit. And we'll break down. So on this slide, this is on the far left is the basement, which totals about 1200 square feet. And I'll be used for mechanical systems, laundry, and storage. Next will be our first unit that would consist of three bedrooms, two baths, also totaling about 1200 square feet. And if you can go to the next slide, please. The building complies with the 35 foot height. The entries are shown. Stay always only. They do not include any balconies. The hardship arises from the dimensional constraints of the lot. So we're going to start with the first one. Questioners are all differently. We know a little bit of the current and our thoughts are all different. We are looking at that. When I enter in the building, I think looking at what we can see with the Can you go over the parking layout? Yeah, so parking, there would be two parking spots per unit. And me and my brother would occupy each unit. So it would be like for ownership. But the layout of the parking, how is the parking is this? Can you go to the second slide? Can you show us that on a plan? Yes, if you go to the second slide. Sorry, I have to zoom in. So if you zoom in on the far left, there's a parking spot. There would be two parking spots. So one at the top, one at the bottom. Is that the one? There's a key. Other questions? Mayor of Public Testarone? Madam Chair and members of the Board, for the record, my name is Jeremy Bembery. I'm the High Park Community Engagement Specialist for the Office of Neighborhood Services. The applicant has completed the community process which consisted of an above-us meeting facilitated on October 28th, very lightly intended where a body's increase such as provided off-sleep parking, construction time, frame, road mitigation, and true removal was where a dress star in the meeting. And with no opposition voice, the proponent will move forward to present the Easter November Association on November 10th, where they voted and support of the proposal. Thank you for your time in the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services, elected to refer to the Board for their judgment. Thank you. Sorry. Next week after the meeting. Yes, good morning. My name is Charlene Grantley. I resided 18 Tina Adve, which is directly across from 21. I'm here to support the project because I believe in home ownership. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Next, we have James. James Campbell. Yes, good. Hi. I'll be lower my hand for you. My name is Charlene Campbell. I'm an attorney with the firm of Rudolf Friedman, LLP State Street in Boston. Can you hear me? Yeah, can you speak up just a little bit? Thank you. Sure. Hi. Okay. So we represent Oakwood Street, LLC. Oakwood Street, LLC owns 27 Tina Adve, which is just down the street, up three houses down. And they also own the property on the end of the street on Oakwood. Oakwood, LLC, has owned that property for over 20 years. And they are posing this development. And the reasons are, first of all, in addition to all of the newer areas of relief that are needed, this is supposed to be a single family district. And we've noticed that the Board of Appeals has recently approved two doors down, a priori to 2015, an avenue for a large three-family property on a similar size lot. And this amount of construction and building in this tiny little street, which has no sidewalks, it's just, it's going to be very difficult if not, perhaps possibly dangerous. We're challenging this further construction in this very dense neighborhood. It's not consistent with the objectives of Article 69 due to the density issues. And in addition to that, it's going to remove any open space, reduce the quality of life. There will be absolutely no way for anyone to park. There is no place to put a car on the street as far as 21 Tina Adve, and it was concerned. In addition to all the reasons cited in our letter, which we filed on Friday of last week, we oppose. Thank you very much. Thank you. Man, there are no additional comments. Any other questions from the Board? Is there a motion? I'm sure. Go ahead. Motion to approve with a provider to submit plans for the design review, with particular focus on the parking design. There are second. Second. It's the STEMRage. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Ms. Panado. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Bernal. Yes. Chair votes, yes. The motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Next, we have case B.O.A. 1-8-1-9-383. With the address is 20-28-A RISLMRO. If the applicant is on the representative's present, will the police explain the report? Thank you, Mr. STEMRage. Madam Chair, members of the Board, appreciate your time again today. My name is Kyle Smith of the Terrell Law of the Business Address of 3-5-9 in Newberry Street in Boston's Bat Bay. If the Board recalls, we were before you just last month, with a proposed change to the prior Board-approved plans. The owner currently owns the two abutting parcels that you see there at a 28-28-A. The prior approval from this Board early in 2024 called for a driveway, scouting between the two lots with proposed rear parking for both structures. There's a significant amount of ledge on this parcel and elevation change. The BPVA was seeking for a reduction in paved areas and an increase in open green space. The byproduct of that was that the owner proposed the last month's iteration for parking, which was front yard parking. The byproduct of that was a request by this Board to defer or go back to the BPVA with proposed other alternative options, which we have done. The proposal before you now calls for, if you're standing on looking at the parcel, side yard parking, calling for two tandem spaces to the right of the structure. The building itself has been the building itself and the footprint remain the same. It's been slightly shifted around the parcel to provide the adequate 10-foot width driveway. We've been in communications with lots of Pinar and Mr. Hampton of the BPTA in relation to this proposal for side yard parking, which for my understanding, the BPTA is preferable to. The BPTA has also proved the design for the building itself in September of 24. So we believe that with that prior approval for the structure and the BPTA is buy into this option for parking, that we should hopefully have the full blessing of the BPTA as relates to this iteration. So the also the proposals to return back to the street parking to enclose approximately 25 feet of currently curb cut to have it be a new curb cut servicing the new driveway. And therefore we're turning parking options to about 25 feet or so on Ridline Street. So with that, we're hoping to gain the blessing of the board for this iteration of parking and structure and the removal of the BPTA design review in light of the prior approval of the BPTA of the structure back in September of 24. And their buy-in of this iteration of parking, which has been communicated via email with Alexa and Mr. Hampton as of last week. Thank you. Questions from the board? You mentioned the curb cut. I guess when you were talking about the curb cut, you were talking about the previous submission having a much wider curb cut with right because existing conditions. If I'm looking on street view, I don't see a curb cut. Is that correct? I mean, at least the plans that I have show the installation of a significant portion of so it says close existing 25 foot curb cut. So my understanding is that there is an existing curb cut present in the intent is to move the curb cut to align with the proposed driveway in this iteration and to return back to the public domain curbing for parking if permitted. So you will be reducing the size of the curb. So we're reducing the amount of curb cut will be increasing back to the public domain more curb. Any other questions from the board? We have public testimony. Madam Chair and members of the board for the record. My name is Jeremy Bemberi. I'm the head of the park committee to engage in specialists for the Office of the Neighborhood Services. The applicant has completed the excuse me. The applicant was not required to complete a full community process. It is our office to understand that the proposal was previously approved by the board. Our office is confident that the change in location of parking triggering the violation would not be met with controversy. In the proposal was approved to come back before the board. Thank you for your time and there is office of the neighborhood services elected deferred to the board for their judgment. Thank you. Madam Chair there are no additional hands raised. Well that may have a motion. Motion approved. Thank you. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Carna. Yes. Mr. Panado. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Bernal. Yes. Chair votes yes. The motion carries. Thank you. Madam Chair. And just to confirm the request is to remove the prior BPD design review proviso. Does that confirm this is a straight-up approval? So yes. Thank you kindly. Next we have case B.O.A. 1-1-86-9-1. With the address of 5-7-0-3. The applicant and though they represent them or present. Will they please explain the case of the board? Thank you. Good morning Madam Chair and members of the board. My name is Jeff Sarge. The architect for 5-7-0-3. The proposed project is converting and existing two family into a three family. The second four unit has walk-up access to the attic and we're proposing reframing the attic at your third unit. If you could scroll down to the last three pages for the renderings. Thank you. We designed the roof and dome layout to maintain a consistent soft at height to match the neighborhood character and I don't know for power or adjacent neighbors. The variance as we are seeking is use. It's the two family zone. We're proposing a three family. The four area ratio is 0.4. This is proposing a 0.6 and the number of stories. This is a two and a half story zone and building out these dormers would create a third story. Thank you for your time. Questions from the board? May I have a public testimony? Madam Chair and members of the board. My name is Heather Jones representing the mayor's office of the neighborhood services. The running flat in the street office. The first of the board's judgment at community process was conducted, including on a butter feeding how long since 29-25% by several board. The feedback from this meeting was concerned expressed in the neighborhood and increased stress on parking in the neighborhood. Additionally, we did receive emails and opposition expressing many of the sentiments expressed in the meeting, including density and increasing parking stress. The mayor's office was also reviewed by the Cedar Girls and Association and Communication is ongoing at the time the mayor's office of the neighborhood services differs from the boys and boys and boys. Thank you everyone for your time and consideration. Thank you. Next we have Anastasia from the Consulate World. Madam Chair and members of the board. Anastasia, I have a public testimony. Thank you. Thank you. Next we have Liam Brumas. Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is Liam Brumas. I'm a chair of the office. I'm like your owner. I can expose your proposal. Thank you. Next we have Andrew from Consulate and Moffees. Andrew. Now is my Murphy's office. Are you speaking? We can't hear you if you're trying to speak. Hello. Can you hear me now? Yes. Thank you. Madam Chair and members of the board. My name is Andrew Galvin. I work in Consulate. I'm a director. I would like to go on support of this project. I'm a record of support of this project. Thank you. Thank you. We have no additional comments. That may I have a motion? I'm going to have a motion to move forward. Mr. Brunel. Mr. Brunel. Mr. Brunel. Mr. Brunel. Mr. Brunel. Mr. Brunel. Mr. Brunel. Mr. Brunel. Mr. Brunel. Mr. Brunel. Mr. Brunel. Mr. Brunel. Mr. Brunel. Mr. Brunel. Mr. Brunel. Mr. Brunel. Mr. Brunel. Mr. Brunel. Mr. Brunel. Mr. Brunel. Mr. Brunel. Mr. Brunel. Mr. Brunel. Mr. Brunel. Mr. Brunel. Mr. Brunel. Mr. Brunel. Mr. Brunel. Mr. Brunel. Mr. Brunel. Mr. Brunel. Mr. Brunel. Mr. Brunel. Mr. Brunel. Mr. Brunel. Mr. Brunel. Mr. Brunel Mr. Brunel. Mr. Brunel. Mr. Brunel. May I welcome you, Mr. Brunel? Mr. I feel good to have Yezil as dyed in Beijing at Disneyland. for Holland's Park at 190 Bowdoin Street. If Mr. or Madam Ambassador could scroll down to the next slide and just quickly introduce our team, George is the executive director and Anna Clemens is the project manager who will be helping with the presentation. Our architects are from Data Square Architects and Laura will be helping in the presentation. We also have Rebecca from RBLA Design and our development consultants from new seasons development. Next slide, I will pass it over to Anna. We'll just quickly go through a little bit or just breathe background on V8. Anna? Oh, good morning. I'm just going to roll through a few slides here. So I am from the Vietnamese American Initiative for Development and we are the project proponent. We were founded in 1994 by community members and residents in the fields corner neighborhood with the mission of a of better indeed fields corner in these communities of George Huster. Next slide, please. We achieve that mission through the development of a four-wheel housing commercial space, the provision of high quality child and senior care, as well as direct social services, and the foster community building. Next slide, please. You can see that our Holland's Park site is located pretty far south in George Huster in the fields corner area, where specifically in the Bowdoin Geneva neighborhood, where we already have a presence of two other properties, one is under development, under construction, and we are of course across the street from another one of our properties. We have two aerial shots there on the right that you can see that the site currently is used as a single family home. Next slide. The site is well served by transit. We have a number of commercial shopping centers nearby. The site will bring another 44 spaces of parking, 36 inside the building and eight outside. There's nearby blue bike stations. The site is served well by two separate bus lines. There's also both rail and tutor rail nearby and we'll have vehicle parking spaces on site for residents. Next slide, please. This is another look at the house. Like I mentioned, it's a single family home. It is vacant. The family who owned the house previously sold it to V&A with the understanding that we were going to turn it into affordable housing and so it's called Holland's Park after the Holland's family. There is a detached garage there in the back, but like I said, the site is vacant. And I will turn it back over to Nick for the next couple of slides to the talk warm up. Is there any? Thank you. Thanks, Anna. Yeah, next slide, please. This is just an overview slide. I think we can just spend a quick 30 seconds on this. The site, as you just saw, is about 18,600 square feet in what's being proposed is just under 36,000 square feet of multifamily residential for an FAR of 1.93. And as mentioned at the outset by Mr. Stembridge, this is all affordable rental housing, 33 units, all at 60% or less AMI, which is in line with V&A's mission in other projects in the neighborhood. And I think most importantly is two thirds of these units are family size you so you can see the breakdown. In the middle of the slide, it would be the requisite bike parking, of course. And although this is an all affordable housing project and Austria parking is not required under the zoning code, there are eight surface spaces for residents. Very sustainable project, passive house net zero zoning compliant. As just mentioned, lots of transportation right around us. And we're nearby to a whole host of opportunities in the neighborhood from the mix use perspective. It is an oversized lot, as I mentioned, 18,600 square feet in a 3F, 5,000 zone sub-district. So it's a little bit of anomaly. And as you can tell by the unit count in the 36,000 or so square feet, this is a small project review project. It was approved in February, so just last month by the planning department board. Next slide, please. This is, I believe, the next slide will be our zoning, actually some challenges to the site, as required under the zoning code, if Madam Ambassador or Mr. Ambassador could just scroll down to the next slide, please. There's a lot of challenges actually to the site. There's a significant grade change, nine feet from the street to the highest point on the site. Lots of tree canopy, which required minimal excavation. We didn't want it to disrupt as many trees as possible to keep the tree canopy while allowing for all affordable residential units. Parking, neighboring residents, as we hear all the time, express the desire for on-site parking. This was made difficult due to the grade changes, but we were able to provide eight on-site parking spaces, not going underground, certainly helpful from a budget standpoint as well, considering this is all affordable housing. There is a retaining wall along Bowdoin Street on the south of the image. You can see the site plan on the right side of the screen, which just shows the configuration of the new building a lot and how unique the lot really is. There's a retaining wall on the lower end, about three to four feet above the sidewalk. So again, regrading the site's cost-partitive in labor intensive. And then not a rectangular square by any means, it's in a regular shape. It actually has a very small frontage on the north on Old New Street and a lot of frontage on Bowdoin Street. So citing the project on this site was difficult. There's some hardship there from lot with building height, off-shoot loading, yard setbacks, and things of that nature from a zoning perspective. Next slide, please. Zoning chart, I'm not going to go line by line, Madam Chair, but this is the zoning chart, just showing what we need for zoning. Again, it's an oversized lot. We do need a use variance for the multifamily residential, but this is affordable housing. And I'll just note that it's adjacent to a large Bowdoin Street, local convenience sub-district, where the multifamily use is actually conditional. And there's a various multifamily right around the site. Anna mentioned that diagonally across the street is a 41 unit affordable housing project built by the same developer. It's been an operation for a few years now. And we also have a non-residential use to the right. If you're facing the site, which is the Family Nurturing Center in the Geneva Bowdoin Main Street offices, there's multiple non-three family residential uses right around us. So we do need zoning relief. Again, a lot of that is due to the size of the lot in more specifically the grade change and the shape of the lot. Again, I can come back to this slide but all that information is right here. If you go to the next slide, I believe that's just our refusal letter. Again, the first, it's a little tough to see on the refusal letter, but the first item is that multifamily use. And again, all of the, I would say all of these items are tied to the uniqueness of the lot. It's shaped, it's grade, as well as the uniqueness of programming for the all affordable rental use programming. That's Mayan Pasad over Laura. She's been to quickly go through from Davis Square Architects just a few of the renderings, just to tie it all together. So Laura, over to you. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is Laura Chell Moe, I'm with Davis Square Architects. And we're very happy to be here today on behalf of V&A for the proposed development, which will, as both Nican Anna have said, include 33 affordable rental units for families in the indoor chest. So I will briefly walk through the plans, and I'm happy to answer any questions the board may have. Here's our site plan to orient you. Bowdoin Street is on the right here. And you can see that the first floor plan includes six units, as well as a management office. You can see the indoor bike parking, which accommodates 36 bikes. We have support spaces to help with property management and the residents. And most importantly, a highly visible and welcoming entry at Bowdoin. We're also planning to reuse the existing curb cut, which as Nick mentioned, it was tricky to get parking to work on this site. But even with reusing the existing driveway, we were able to reorganize the parking and fit eight spots there. Next slide, please. This is another view of the first floor. You can see the interior program a little bit more here. I think we can go to the next slide for second floor. Second floor and third floor stacked. We have eight, nine units on each floor, of course, two stairs in an elevator, connecting all the floors for the residents. Next slide, please. This is the third floor. It looks a lot like the second. Next slide should be fourth floor. The building is four stories. Units mostly stack here as well, although we've swapped one unit for a community room, which also has access to a roof deck at that fourth floor level. So total units is 33. And again, a nice mix of one, two, and three better units for families. These are views of the elevations. You can see the building height for stories. Some of the parking, you can see on that lower elevation is partially covered by the building. If you go to the next slide, you'll see the front. Let's have five entry on top. And side elevation. Next slide, please. And this is our render view. You can see that existing curb cut being reused there. The front entry, again, highly visible, welcoming close to offices. Great access for residents. And I'll just point out the roof deck off of the community room is up there in the corner of them on the fourth floor. Thanks, Laura. You know, just to wrap up, thanks for the time. This is again, we had our article eighties, small price review public meeting on November 3rd. We also provided which to the board numerous support letters from every elected official imaginable, as well as the Fields Corner Civic Association. So that concludes our presentation. And thank you for letting us go through it. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? Yeah, public testimony. Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board of the corner. New women with the mayor's services. This time, the mayor is offered to defer to the judgment as board some background information in the community process. As you heard, this went through a small project review with Boston planning. They submitted 18 letters in support from elected officials, local nonprofits, as residents and doorchester. They presented to the Greater Bowdoin, Geneva Civic Association as well. Presently, I don't worry about any concerns without deferred to the board. Thank you. Next, without any questions, we'll go into those words. Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, I hope the world is happy to go and support this project as it brings much more affordable housing to the area. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Next, we have Leon Riemas. Hello, Madam Chair, members of the board, Leon Riemas from Council. If it serves out this office, I'll ask the like on record support proposal. Thank you. Thank you. Next, we have, you know, minor place. Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Madam Chair, members of the board of mine up for us with the carpenters union. We want to go and represent support of this project. Thank you. Next, we have Camille from a Boston planning department. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. Thank you for letting me speak today. I am the project manager for the planning department for 190 Bowdoin Street. As Nick mentioned in his presentation, the project filed a small project review application with us on September 19th of last year. It recently went to the BPD Board in February of 2026 and did host one article 80 lead virtual public meeting on November 3rd of 2025. The meeting was well attended. It was advertised in local newspapers as well as sent to our doorchester email list. As so we would like to be on record and support of the project. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. We have a... Yeah, that. Good morning. My name is Tierra Satchable from the Meteors Office of Housing. I'm the development officer assigned to this project in the mine go and record and support of the project. Thank you. Madam Chair, there are no additional comments. Okay, any other questions from the board? May I have a motion? Motion to approve. Is there a second? There we are. Mr. Stembridge. Yep. Mr. Valencia. Yes, the great project. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Panato. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Brinnell. Yes. Chair votes, yes. Motion carries. The bill. Thank you very much. Next, we have case. Spearways. 1-8-1-16-8-7. With the address of 147 Harvard Street. If the applicant did know they represent a present, will they please present the board? Okay. Good morning. Can you hear me? Yes, sir. Thank you. Please state your name and address for the record. Yes, thank you. My name is Attorney Michael Van Damms. I also have with me if we need assistance, the architect Jennifer Howe and the builder of August to date, Sylvia area. We were in front of the board in September for a zoning relief, which was granted by this board. And later on, we learned that there needs to be some tidying up, if you will, on the zoning relief requested, which is why we're here today, in which a new refusal letter was issued by the Special Services Department and a letter dated signed February 2nd, essentially members of the board. The original zoning refusal letter just failed to include that it needed to cite articles 60 Section 3. It's in the greater Madapen neighborhood use and because violated the F3F 5000 zone, this is a four-store unit, I should say building. And as you see, when we presented back in the fall, it was four stories as well. So we're just cleaning that up, if you will. Secondly, this new refusal letter has a relief under Article 60 Section 9 in terms of the stories were approved at the last hearing, being four stories. However, the feat technically wasn't approved the dimensional regulations. I will say for clarity, the dimensional regulations in the last go-around was 40 feet and with new plans you have before you, I believe it's 40 feet and 4 inches. Secondly, this new application, or I should say, new refusal extends three previously granted relief as to, and I'll just go over them quickly. The floor area ratio was excessive. In the last go-around, it was, let me just see here. It was, let's see, oh, it was 1.36 now, it's 1.41. All the things I'm gonna go over has to do with it. We add to the, for safety reasons, add, decided to add a rear egress so that that small area of the staircase. That also changed because we had to move the building a little. It changed the front yard setback from two. It was in the last go-around, two feet, 10 inches. Now it's two feet and the rear yard was 23 inches to now 14 feet, 11 inches due to, as I said, the rear egress and the roof end of the building to the front a little to not disturb the butter in terms of tree limbs and foundation. So that's what's before you. We seek relief of those, really those five violations. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? Hearing none may have public testimony. Madam Chair and members of the board for the record, my name is Jeremy Bembery and the Doach Hester Committee and gave the specialist for the office of neighborhood services. Deplicant has previously completed the community process within a butters made a facilitator on January 8th. As you heard, but his voice concerns over the parking and the size of the proposal for they were failing that the four stories is excessive for the area. Concerning the new updated proposal of the missed evariances, no further community process was required at this time. To date our office has not received any further community feedback. Although the proponents team did mention 18 letters of support for the previous proposal, I know support that has happened received at this time. Thank you for your time on the Ms. Office of Neighbor Services. We like to defer to the board for the judge. Next we have Anastasia from Consulate World. Yes, thank you, Madam Chair. And there's a report. Council, I would like to go on that. I'd be quite a bit. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, they have no additional comments. Would that may have motion? Motion for approval. They're second. Second. Mr. Stamucci. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Turner. Yes. Ms. Panato. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Bernal. Yes. Chair votes, yes. The motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Next we have case B.O.A. 176-2896. With the address of 37 Calumet Street, if the applicant ends with the representative of the project, would they please point the case through the board? I guess. Good morning, this is Tim Johnson, the project architect. And nice to see Madam Chair and members of the board. This is a project at Mission Hill, third number 37 Calumet Street. It's a change of occupancy, we're proposing from a three to four unit residential building. There'll be no expansion of the building footprint. There's an existing lower level walk out to a side passageway with an existing rear deck that would be renovated. This will be a build out space to a two bedroom, two bath unit. The building does have a fire suppression and fire alarm system, which will be extended into this unit. And the change of occupancy, two or three and four family requires an interleaf including excessive FAR, insufficient lot area, insufficient usable open space per unit, insufficient off-street parking for the additional unit, and relief for non-conforming, existing insufficient front and side yard setbacks. We are currently, this multi-family proposed for unit building is an attached multi-family to the abouternext door at number 39. This building also went for a zoning relief for a four four walk out several years ago. For the process, for the mayor's office of the neighborhood services, we had in a butters meeting in October of last year, we had two neighbors attend. There was no opposition. And we also made three presentations to the community alliance of Mission Hill. And we submitted their support letter and the support letter from the director of the butter at number 39. Next slide please. These are shown existing conditions. When my client purchased this building several years ago, there was some work done on this lower level unit. We believe it was without permit and it was never completed. We are going through the permitting and approval process now to complete this walk out number four unit. You can see in the lower right the existing rear deck. So this unit will have access to the exterior for a fresh air, light, etc. Next slide please. These are existing plans showing this is a lower level, which was never completed. Next slide please. These are floor plans of the three units at the first, second, and third floor. Next slide please. And finally, this is the certified plot plan showing the partition wall between number 37 and 39. We have the passageway on the right side, which goes to a side entry door and also to the rear under the existing rear deck where trash and AC units are located. And there's a quick overview, Madam Chair. Thank you. I have questions from the board. May I have public testimony? Madam Chair and board members, see Johnson with the Office of Neighborhood Services. This petitioner completed the community process. Our office hosted on a butters meeting on October 23rd of 2025, at which no concerns were raised. The applicants met multiple times with the community alliance with the Mission Hill, a meeting for productive, and they have secured the support of that group. Our office is aware of some concerns from Mission Hill neighborhood housing services. The community group that owns a property in the area, and they would like the applicant to reach out to them. With that background, our office differs judgment to the board. Thank you. Madam Chair, there are no additional comments. Well, that may I have a motion? Motion to approve. There are a second. Okay. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Turner. Yes. Ms. Panato. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Bernal. Yes. Chair votes yes. The motion carries. Good luck. Thank you, Madam Chair. I have a motion. Thank you. Madam Chair, at this point, we passed the 11 o'clock hour. So, will I ask if there are any request for withdrawals and withdrawals from the 11 o'clock hour? Mr. Justin Burns. Yes, Mr. Stembridge. I will look into the first 1740 Hyde Park app. We've got some of the... Yep. So that... So, the deferral would be 4K's POA. 180. 06. 10. With the address of 1740 Hyde Park app. You're going to explain what? I think Mr. Stembridge, good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board of attorney, Justin Burns, business address, 10 forms, row of brain tree massachusetts. This is just an issue with advertising. ISD had an updated the scope of work on the... on the plans on the refusal. And then, so, ZBG, got a scope of work that's reached 40 units from the project is for 42. So, we just need to re-advertise and then come back before ZBG. Okay. Do we have dates? Tell them. What could you do, May 5th? May 19th or June 2nd? May 5th would be perfect. Thank you. Yes, that may have a motion. Motion to defer the case to May 5th. Is there a second? That can. Mr. Chair, I need to refuse from this project. Okay. Go. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Mr. Tarno? Yes. Mr. Tarno? Yes. Tarno? Sorry. Mr. Pnauto? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Chair votes yes. The motion carries. Thank you very much. If there are no further requests for withdrawals of the firm, the company of about an clock timeframe, we will return to the nine 30s and we will have to go through two companion cases. These may be case B-O-A179, 8824, with the address of 69, South Huntington Avenue, along with case B-O-A179, 8829, with the address of 71, South Huntington Avenue. If the applicant can do what they represent, the present will they please respond to the board. Yes. Thank you, Mr. Stembridge. Madam Chair, members of the board, Attorney Ryan Spitz with Adam Samaransi, business address of 168 H.D. First floor, South Boston. Joining me today is the owner, Scott Schneider, and Project Architect, Damand Ristall. Our proposal seeks to change the occupancy from a three-family dwelling to a four-family dwelling by way of renovating the lower levels of both of these applications. We will have a six-family dwelling by the north wall of the building, which is one at 69, South Huntington Avenue, and the other at 71, South Huntington Avenue. Same ownership, as well as there's a shared wall on the in-between. Again, this lower level is a full walk out in the rear. There will be no other changes to the footprint of the building. Project was submitted in Unison with 71, South Huntington Avenue, which shares the north wall of the property. The other properties are proposing the same improvements and our side to the same exact violations. Proposals are closely aligned with the city's by-ride conversion of internal spaces to accessory dwelling units, except that this property is investor-owned rather than on our occupied. Postal falls within an RH sub-district, which allows for the proposed use. The unit will be a two-bedroom, one bathroom. We have violations for additional lot area. Lot sizes, 1923 square feet, and the code requires 1,400 square feet for the first two units, and then an additional 700 square feet for each additional unit. However, this proposal is alarming with other parcels in this neighborhood. We have FAA violations. The requirement of this sub-district is a 1.0. The existing non-conforming to the zoning code with a slight increase. So it's 69. The FAA is at 1.84 with the proposed at 71, South Huntington is at 1.96. However, the FAA will be worsened to a 2.44 at 69 and at 2.55 at 71. We have open space violations requirement. This sub-district is 200 square feet per unit, and the existing is pre-existing non-conforming at a total of 338 square feet. The conversion will worsen the open space as there is no additional being provided for this new unit. Austria parking violation requirement is 1.0 parking space is per new unit of housing, but the proposal does not include any, but again is aligned with the surroundings. In concluding the proposal meets the city of Boston's housing and development goals, a contextual with the surrounding neighborhood in favor. And most recently, Madam Chair, very consistent with the last proposal that you just heard at 37 Calmington, which was just approved by this board, and the same neighborhood. So at this point, I'm going to turn it over to you, Madam Chair, for any questions or comments from the board. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? I have public testimony. Madam Chair and board members, Siggy Johnson with the Office of Neighborhood Services. This applicant has completed the community process. Our office hosted on a butters meeting on December 10th concerning both of the companion cases at which no concerns were raised. The applicants presented to the community alliance of Mission Hill were not aware of any concerns from that group. That background, Owen, that's the first judgment to the board. Thank you. Madam Chair, please. Madam Chair, please. Okay. That may have the motion. I'll make a motion of approval. Yes, sir. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. The Valencia. Yes. Ms. Turner. Yes. Ms. Pinaro. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Bernal. Yes. Chair votes, yes. The motion carries. Thank you. Next, we have case BOA 180, 0066. With the address of 428 to 434 Massachusetts Avenue. It's the applicant's end or their representative or president. Would they please find the board? Good morning, Attorney. William Frurole on behalf of the applicant for 34 Massachusetts Avenue LLC. We have before you today with the request to change occupancy to include live entertainment at an existing restaurant at that address. This use is conditional in the South End neighborhood community commercial sub district as a restaurant with live entertainment operating after 1030. The current restaurant, SIV, restaurant has been in this location for 10 years. Very well received in the neighborhood. It's a fine dining Italian restaurant. The restaurant does approximately 3035 events each year requiring one day entertainment licenses. Most of these events are weddings and it's growing that business each year and the entertainment board had requested that we explore the change of zoning to allow this since the process of obtaining the one day licenses. The one day licenses is both tight, consuming and expensive for the host who has the wedding party, et cetera. We have been before the Claremont neighborhood association as well as the funds meeting, both of which have endorsed this. There should be a letter on file from Claremont indicating their support. There will be no changes to the operation of the restaurant. It will continue to operate exactly as it has for the past 10 years as mentioned the only difference being that rather than going in nearly every week for a one day entertainment license. We will now be able to do that automatically by engaging the entertainment for the facility. Entertainment here is limited to the inside. There's no entertainment on the patio or front of the restaurant at all. We have agreed with the neighborhood association that again operation doesn't change. There will be no increase in hours or capacity or any change in the way the operation has worked for the last 10 years. The owner manager is also present on this call so if there are any questions about that we can answer them for the board. Can you confirm what your current hours are? Yes, the closing hour for the stretch is 1 a.m. And that's daily. Yes, it doesn't close at 1 a.m. daily but the allowed closing hours 1 a.m. The general closing of the restaurant usually ends up being between 11 and 12 and that's similar for the functions. The function generally close down somewhere between 11 and 12 at night. And then just can you confirm we did receive some emails of concern about the noise. Can you just talk a little bit more about that and what type of live entertainment you generally should be using? As mentioned, we've done this for 10 years. There have been no complaints registered for noise. The entertainment is generally either a DJ that allows for dancing by patrons at weddings. And the other is usually a combo which will be usually about 1 to 3 instruments. It may be a vocalist as mentioned. It's all interior. We locate this at the front of the restaurant near the street. It's not at the rear of the restaurant or further back of the restaurant. The surrounding building is a commercial property. And as mentioned, we do not do this on the outside. We do have an outside patio in the back. And we don't allow the live entertainment in that area. Other questions from the board? We have public testimony. Hello, Madam Chairman. The report, the name is David Jones. Representative Jim and the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. We're going towards the need to fortary for mass abuse. That new office to first goes towards the judgment. The community process was conducted, including on a butter's meaning on their expected periodic bit. Appended by several thousand community members. The feedback from the speeding was support from everyone expressing that service of popular venue in the city. And had attended many wonderful weddings at the restaurant. The proposal was also reviewed by the chairman of neighborhood association and their meeting on 1218 25 and have expressed support through letters submitted to the board. At the time of the mayor's office of neighborhood services to press for the force of the government. Thank you everyone for your time and consideration. Madam Chair, next we have Christian. Hello everyone. Christian Frazier. I'm a neighbor across the street at the 566 condominium. I just want to express my support for this petition. SRV is beloved restaurant in neighborhood, including myself and my wife. And we are aware that there are weddings at the restaurant from time to time. And I can say that, you know, from our perspective, you know, the live entertainment that those weddings, you know, presents no disruption to neighborhood. And we just wish the best for SRV. And the only disappointment is when they close the restaurant for those weddings. But no disruption from entertainment. So just want to express my support. Thank you. Madam Chair, there are no additional comments. Oh, I'm sorry. I think it is in this Johnson. Good morning Madam Chair, members of the board. Thank you so much for taking the time to allow me to speak. We wanted to, I'm from Councillor Santana's office and we wanted to go on record in favor of this. And we also wanted to say that the restaurant has been a longstanding, you know, part of the community and really accommodating to neighbors. And we are in favor. So we are in total support. Thank you. You're welcome. Madam Chair, I don't have additional hands raised at the moment. Okay. Well, that may have motion. Thank you. Is there a second? Second. Sorry. I want to. Mr. Steinbridge. Yeah. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Panada. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Bernal. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. The motion carries. Thank you very much. Next, we have Casey B.O.A. 178. 99913 with the address of 81 to 858 L Street. It's the applicant to enter the representative of President. Would that please explain to the board? Yes. Thank you, Mr. Steinbridge. Madam Chair, members of the board. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Today with the forecast on all sides, I'm going with white habitat and gray is turbulent, and we are on the alert. We want to mention black protected habitat because they are on closing the windows at 9 p.m., 7 nights per week, as well as providing contact information to nearby residents. Councilor Flynn, respectfully request the proponent continue to work closely with neighbors on any of quality of life issues. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, we have one more person. Luan, now you can speak. Good morning, thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Luano, our president of the City of Point New Diabobo Association, essentially what ONS and Councilor Flynn have put forth is in fact true. The process itself went very well. The owners, Mike Shaw and Rachel did in fact reach out to the avodders that were in opposition, gave them a secure feeling by sharing their personal information in case there are any noise issues. They can be addressed right away. And the closing of the windows at 9 p.m. because it is MFRLS. So there is in fact, residential neighborhoods surrounding it. So with that, Gata Havan and City Point New Diabobo Discivation will take no position. And yes, we are aware that it's being heard today. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, there are no additional comments. That may have a motion. Okay, motion is not approved with the process. The windows are closed at 9 p.m. dated. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Cambridge. Yeah. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Pomado. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Bernal. Yes. Chair votes yes. The motion carries. Thank you. Next we have case POA. 1782125 with the address of 50 Chandler Street. If the applicant is on their representative's front, will they please explain to the board? Hello. Madam Chair, can you hear me? Yes, we can. But thank you, John Moran, Alpine Advisory Services. This is a grow house project in the south end, seeking to change the occupancy from four dwelling units to two dwelling units with interior demolition, reconfiguring and renovating the new dwelling units, with one can't to leave it rear deck at the second floor level and reconstruction and enlargement of an existing roof deck for the exclusive use of the second unit. The cost of the project exceeded 50% of the assess value thereby triggering G-cord applicability, the customary Boston Water and Sour compliance letter and stamp plans have been duly filed together with the old harmless letters sent to Kristen that ground water trust. Additionally, the proposed rear deck at the second floor level requires a conditional use permit. The site is somewhat unique in the south end as the Riyadh butz Lauren Street, which only has construction on the opposite side of the street. If we could stroll to 22, we sought an advisory opinion from landmarks and they indicated that they would approve the proposed rear deck, but only with the conversion of an existing window to a door and we have agreed to that. Outreach in the community was very positive and supportive with that we would defer. Questions from the board? And public testimony? Hello, Madam Chairman. The board, my name is David Jones, I'm sent in the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. For getting the DH Hamlin Street Office to first the board's judgment, a community process was conducted including a library's meeting held on 11, 10, 25. That was likely extended by the south end community and productive conversation was had among neighbors. Although following this meeting, South end liaison has been made aware of the community's concerns about the amount of construction occurring on the street as well and the amount of construction vehicles taking parking space is not within the permits. This is where this proposal is mentioned as one of the projects causing some concerns in the south end. The proposal was also connected to the Ellis Neighborhood Association and the association is not opposed to this proposal. At this time, the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services is the first support general on this matter. Thank you everyone for your time and consideration. Thank you. Next, we have Ashley from Consolid Fiend. Good morning, my name is Ashley from Consolid Fiend's Office. Consolid Fiend would like to go on record and support based on a good community process and not opposition from the Ellis Neighborhood Association. Consolid Fiend respectfully requests that the proponent work closely with neighbors and the butters on quality of life issues during the construction days. Thank you. Okay, next we have Christine Simonelli. Good morning Madam Chairman, this is the board, Christine Simonelli, Boston-Growler Trust, and we have both Chico and Les from the applicant. Thank you. Madam Chair, the additional comments. Would that have a motion? Thank you. Motion over. There was second? Second. Thank you. Mr. Stembridge. Yeah. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Pinoff. Mr. Pinoff. Yes. Mr. Pinoff. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Bernal. Yes. Chair votes yes. Motion carries. Thank you. That is the final case for 930. I'm going to ask you to pass the motion. We can ask again the journey. The question was, you also refer to the local talk-up. You are a stunt who wants to case B.O.A. 176-146-7. The address of 11. Elco Street. It's the applicant. Those are the other persons of the present. The case is pointless. Good morning, Madam Chair and members of the board. David Suni, a turn for Summit Development. The project is 11 Elco Street. I'm here with Fonsan Keani and the architect Andrew. I'm here with the applicant. I'm here with the applicant. I'm here with the applicant. I'm here with the applicant. I'm here with the applicant. I'm here with the applicant. I'm here with the applicant. I'm here with the applicant. I'm here with the applicant. I'm here with the applicant. I'm here with the applicant. I'm here with the applicant. I'm here with the applicant. I'm here with the applicant. I'm here with the applicant. I'm here with the applicant. I'm here with the applicant. I'm here with the applicant. I'm here with the applicant. I'm here with the applicant. I'm here with the applicant. I'm here with the applicant. I'm here with the applicant. I'm here with the applicant. A total of 10,571 square feet on a 10,000 square foot lot. A very, since required, or a use variance to go to Mokin family, it's a 2F 5000 neighborhood district, as well as FAR to go from code 0.6 to 1.21 in addition building height from 35 feet, three stories to 39 feet and four stories. This is for the addition on the back of the house. The house is being fully preserved. And there will be a breezeway that connects the structure and the back to the house. We also have off-street parker variance that was requested. And as I mentioned, because it's in the Sparhawk Overlay District design review will follow. We are excited to create on the million more ownership opportunities for the neighborhood. We are fully complying with inclusionary zoning, so there will be a three bedroom affordable unit at the front house upper floor, probably the nicest unit in the project. I'm happy to make that affordable. And we have engaged with the community, and we believe we've received favorable. And the community association should be anyway. And we, with that, unless the board has any questions for the architect, we'll turn it back to you. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? You're not in the public testimony. Madam Chair and board members, Mr. Sigi Johnson with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This petitioner completed the community process in September 2025 and initial abouters meeting was held, and the proposal was substantially reworked thereafter. A new proposal responded to feedback by preserving the existing structure of all abouters meeting was held on February 10th. A number of abouters previously opposed. We're supporting the changes to the design, however, the direct abouter at 15 Elkville Street, as well as a condo association nearby at 735 Cambridge Street, continued to be opposed to the application. Primarily due to removing open space, they contend there is an issue with flooding in this immediate area and removing this amount of open space for the project will make water runoff and flooding issues worse on their property. They have submitted letters and photographs to the board, explaining this position. The office received two letters of support and four letters of opposition for the updated proposal, and the Brighton Austin Improvement Association is supporting the updated proposal. With that back on, our office deferred judgment to the board. Thank you. Next, we have Moeha McRae from Consulate Braidons. Hello, this is Moeha McRae from Consulate Braidons Office. Consulate Braidons, related on the work and support of this project. As she appreciates that, this project will bring much into the new housing to Brighton Center and condominium units. She appreciates that the proponent has her team. We were doing all residential structure and is adding an addition in the rear entry. Also, significantly the project also includes ID and E-R version of the event, which is much even in the event. Thank you. Thanks. Next, we have a Ravela Gomez. Madam Chair, members of the board of the Annabelle Gomez, I'm a Brighton Austin Improvement Association. The applicant presented twice to the BIA after the first presentation. They went back to what concerns that were brought up and worked with the historic to address issues of preserving the house. And the second presentation, the BIA, going to support this project. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, the award is not going to be. With that, may I have a motion? I can have a question, Madam Chair. Yes. For the proponent or for Carol, do they need housing, and with the mayor, mayor of the office of housing for this project? I can address that. I think you're asking about the affordable housing requirement. Correct. Yes, we have a large three bedroom, which has been designated as inclusionary zoning. And this three bedroom actually provides a little bit more than 17% of the havinable floor area for assisted, ownership. Yes. So, but did you already execute the housing agreements with the mayor of the office of housing for this unit? We've been in contact with the mayor's office. I don't know. I'm going to have to ask my team if we've executed well. So, I can address that. They were requesting to execute it after the BIA approval, as well as they told us. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Renell. Yes. Chairwoman, yes. The motion carries. Thank you. At this point, I'll just mention that the next case, we've been deferred. And we have also passed the last 30 hour. So, we've asked if there are any more questions. For the check on these cases.í Will drone withdrawals would deferral inclusoly from the Alon chili exactly here. Yes. The Yaoist kept turning. It was 18 to 22. Street. Last. of 18 to 22 Green Street. Would you go ahead and explain it with? Yes, thank you. The system is good afternoon. Good morning, Madam Chair. I'm just a board for Laker-Litchard Lins. Business address of 2.5 summer streams. We have the Tishinar. We are requesting the draw. This matter. Okay. Will that have a motion? Or should the deferred answer to one? I'll make a motion to approve the withdrawal. Yes, there's second. Oh, second. Mr. Stembridge. Yeah. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Ms. Panato. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Brunel. Yes. Chair votes. Yes, the motion carries. Thank you. Thank you. Somebody else from the Attorney's section. The person with iPhone 7, I'm not sure if he's looking to refer as well. Hello. Hello. Who's up? Are you seeking an 1130 deferral? Yes. No, I'm trying to speak about 11. Echo straighter. Okay. Okay. Well, that just got approved. So we're onto the next case. Okay, Mr. Stembridge. I'm sure so here for the one-and-a-clock hearings that takes us to two companion cases. It was being case BOA 1766278, with the address of 2195, George S. Ravender. Along with that, we have case BOA 1766286, with the address of 2197 to 2199, George S. Ravender. The applicant and the other representative present will be pleased to join the board. Yes, thank you, Mr. Stembridge, and good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. For the record, my name is Matt Echo, and I'm returning with Fletcher Tilton, on behalf of the applicant. Also with me this morning is Jennifer Ha, from Pue Architecture. The proposal we're seeking to subdivide the existing law at 2195, George S. Ravender, and erect a new residential building with three units and two parking spaces on the proposed new law. The existing law at 2195, George S. Ravender, is essentially a double lot in the subdivision of this property will result in two lots that comply with the minimum lot size requirement, and are fairly typical along the stretch of Dorchester AF. The proposed new law is currently vacant, and will have approximately 3,045 square feet. The lot itself, as you can see in the plan currently being shown, is at the corner of Dorchester AF in St. Gregory Street, and it's surrounded on this side of the street by mostly residential units, everywhere from single family to multi-family residential structures, as well as St. Gregory's Church, and we're right across the street from Dorchester Park. The zoning district is a 3 FD 3000, and this three family proposed use isn't allowed use within the district. However, we are seeking relief for a few dimensional requirements. Floor area ratio, you're allowed a 1.3, we're proposing 1.5, so slightly above, usable open space, you're required to have 300 square feet per dwelling unit, we're proposing approximately 166. However, as I mentioned, we are directly across the street from one of the biggest parks in the neighborhood at Dorchester Park. Side yard, you're required to have five feet on the right side, so the side facing the current building at 2.195, Dorchester AF, we have three feet, so we're just two feet short, and then finally, in terms of parking, this requires a 1-to-1 parking ratio. We are providing two interior garage spaces, which will be accessed off in existing curb cut off St. Gregory Street, and although we're a little bit short here, this does align with the current proposed guidelines, and we do have a bus stop right outside the front door. Just to run through the four plans very briefly, as mentioned, there will be a two car garage located at the rear of the lower level, and you can see on this plan, and as we maybe scroll through the plans a little bit further, this comes off St. Gregory Street through the curb cut, and then you would turn in with plenty of maneuverability to park in the parking spaces proposed at the lower level, interiorly constructed. We're also going to have a common utility room in this lower level, and the bottom level of unit one, unit one's gonna be a bi-level unit in the lower level, and then moving up to the first floor, so on this lower level, we'll just have a family room in some laundry. Mr. Ambassador, if we can just move to the floor plans, going up to the first floor, we are proposing that'll be the main entrance for all three units, which will access from the doorchester outside of the structure, and then the remaining unit one, which will be the upper level, will contain three bedrooms and two baths, as well as a rear balcony and living space. We'll be located at this level, altogether, unit ones, just over 1700 total square feet. Moving up to the second floor, the proposed second unit is just over 1,100 square feet, and this will also be a three-bedroom unit with two bathrooms in both the front and rear balcony by some usable open living space for the future residents, and then up to the third floor, proposing a 1200 square foot unit, this will be a two-bedroom unit with an office, as well as two bathrooms. So all larger units, two of which are family-style with three bedrooms. As part of this process, we met with the abutters, as well as the Lower Mill Civic Association e-board, and their general membership, and the Lower Mill Civic Association voted to support this project. I'll now turn it over briefly to Jennifer Ha, again, the project architect, and she can briefly go through these perspectives and the overall design. Hello, Matt. Thank you for the introduction. Good morning, Madam Chair and board members. My name is Jennifer Ha, principal architect of Hugh Architecture, F-53H Harvard Street. As Matt explained the proposal is for us to subdivide the lot, and so with the new vacant lot, we will propose a new three-family dwelling. From the site plan, you can see that our building matches and scale of the neighborhood. We intentionally increased the front yard setback to nine feet ten inches to a line with our neighbor at 2195 Dorchester Ave. This creates a consistent street scape and gives us room for robust landscaping, including two new trees. At the rear, we're utilizing the existing St. Gregory Street curb cut to access two under building garage spaces. Looking at the plan, unit one is 1,727 square feet. It is a unique by-level home, spending the first floor and basement that features three bedrooms, lower-level family space, private rear balcony, and an attached garage. Unit two is 1,104 square feet. It's on the second floor. It's also three bedroom unit that mirrors the main floor of unit one, but it adds a large private front-bop porch and utilizes the second garage space. Unit three is 1,200 square feet. It's our top floor unit. It offers two bedrooms and dedicated office space and open concept living space. Looking at the exterior, we design a traditional gable roof with dormers, which again directly echoes the design of our neighbor at 2195 Dorchester Ave. And the natural street slope along St. Gregory's allows us to seamlessly tuck the garage spaces underneath the building. For the facade, we are using Navy Blue Party lap-siding complemented by light gray shingles accented by large black aluminum windows and crisp white trims. Ultimately, we believe the classic gables, double height front porches and thoughtful landscaping will make this a highly desirable addition to the neighborhood's curb appeal. Thank you. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? I have public testimony. Madam Chair and members of the board, for the record, my name is Jeremy Bember. I am the trust the community gave the specialist for the Office of Neighborhood Services. The applicant has completed the community process which consisted of an avarice meeting facilitated on September 29th with two guests in attendance. All inquiries were addressed during the meeting with the concern for loss of green space and property of keep being voiced. The proponent also shared contact information during the meeting to continue engaging the community. Next, the proponent presented the both Lower Mill Civic Association e-board and the General Membership meetings where they voted in favor of the proposal. To date, our office has not received any further community feedback. Thank you for your time and the members of the neighborhood services selected to refer to the board for their judgment. Thank you. Hello Madam Chair and members of board, and my name is Mr. Councillor Fitzgeralds. I was absolutely like your records, boy, this proposal. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, there are no additional comments. Hey, would that be our motion? What motion to approve? There are second. Back in. Mr. Chairman. Yes. Mr. Montia. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Padauto. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Bernou. Yes. Chair votes yes. The motion carries. Thank you very much. Next, we have case B.O.A. 1-8-1-0-1-4 with the address of 55 to 563. Tom Laminum. This is also an article 80 case. So if the applicant and or their representative are present, would they please explain to the board? Thank you, Mr. Stanbridge. Good morning, Madam Chair and members of the board. My name is George Morancy. I'm an attorney with the business address 350 West Broadway in South Boston. I represent the project proponent 555, Talbot Avenue, LLC, and its principal Mark Little. Also joining me is Mike Delafay of Rode Architects, who will follow my remarks with a presentation on the architectural drawings. Madam Chair, members, the parcel in question is located at 555-563 Talbot Avenue in Dorchester Avenue, directly fronting Peebody Square Plaza. The law does approximately 9,000 square feet and currently supports a single-story commercial building that contains a restaurant. The proposed project is a new six-story mixed-use building containing 33 residential rental units and approximately 3,700 square feet of ground floor restaurant space. The residential program can serve as a single-story building that is a single-story building and the residential program consists of 23 one-bedroom units, eight two-bedroom units, and two three-bedroom units. Six of the 33 units are approximately 18%. We'll be income restricted at 60% of the area made in income, thereby overfulfilling the 17% requirement under Article 79's inclusionary zoning. The project proposes no-off-street parking and will provide 46 secure bicycle parking spaces. The total gross square footage of the building is approximately 37,776 square feet. Before coming to this board, the project successfully completed Article 8E Small Project Review with the Boston Planning Department on November 13th of last year, the BRE Board voted to approve the proposed project and a copy of that approval as in the board's records. Inspectional Services Department, Asian Zoning Refuse Letter, citing the need for the following zoning relief from the provisions of Article 65 of the Boston zoning code, the Duochester neighborhood district. The site is located within an MFRLS multi-family residential local services zoning sub-district. The proposed ground floor restaurant is a for-bid use in the sub-district requiring a use variance. The project requires dimensional variances for insufficient law area for the number of dwelling units being proposed, 9,000 square feet versus 33,000 square feet required under zoning. Excessive floor area ratio, the proposed FA hours approximately 4.3, where is the maximum allowed under zoning is 1. Excessive building height, the allowed building height in the sub-district is 3 stories and 40 feet. The proposed building would come in at 6 stories and 70 feet. In sufficient usable open space, 2,640 square feet approximately will be provided versus 13,200 square feet required by zoning. There is an insufficient front yard setback, 0 is proposed versus 5 feet required under the code, insufficient side yards. 0 on the right side and approximately 6 feet on the left are being proposed versus the 10 feet that are required by code, and an insufficient rear yard setback, 10 feet versus the 30 feet required by code. Off-street parking and loading variances are also required as the zoning code would otherwise require nearly 50 parking spaces for the residential use alone as well as commercial parking for the restaurant and the loading bay. The requested zoning relief is we argue appropriate given the location, characteristics and context of this site. The parcel sits nearly literally at the front door of Ashmont T-station, the southern terminus of the red lines, Ashmont branch and the northern terminus of the Madapetan line with 10 MBTA bus routes and the blue bike hub with the intermediate walking distance of the project location. The surrounding built environment at the Talmud Dweckchester Avenue intersection already consists of multi-story, six-story in some case, multi-family buildings with similar front and side yard setbacks, active ground floors and street wall conditions that define the character of Peabody Square. The project far from being out of scale with its immediate neighborhood context is rather entirely consistent with it. Additionally, the requirements of the applicable MFR LS zoning which dates from 2002 do not reflect current planning policy. The subdistrict's dimensional standards contemplate a scale of development that is currently inconsistent. We would argue with what the city of Boston in the planning department have identified as appropriate for a major transit node like Ashmont consistent with the Go Boston 2030 and imagine Boston 2030 plans. These plans specifically identified the Fairmont corridor in Ashmont station area as priority locations for transit oriented development at increased density, exactly what we are seeking to provide here. The zoning code simply is not caught up to these policy goals yet. As I say, the particular configuration of this law requires relief. The parcel is approximately 9,000 square feet. It is a narrow shallow lot bounded by a steep grade change at the rear. There is frankly no reasonable way to develop this site in a manner consistent with community need and planning policy without the variances requested. This hardship is not manufactured. It is inherent in the lot's size, geometry and location. With respect to the forbidden use, we strongly believe that the use variance for the restaurant is appropriate. The existing site already contains a restaurant. It is in fact the only present use. The proposal to include a new restaurant here continues and improves an active commercial presence that serves the surrounding area and serves to activate P. Butty Plaza. Finally, the public interest will be served by the approval of the requested variances. The project will deliver 33 new housing units, including six affordable units to one of Boston's most transit accessible locations. The cost of the city is $10,000 contributed to the city's bike share system and significant street escape improvements to P. Butty Square Plaza, which will be shown in a little bit more detail in Mike Delafay's presentation. With that, I'd like to turn the presentation over to Mike Delafay, and he will quickly walk the board through the project plan set. Thank you very much. Mike Delafay of Rode Architects. I'm an architect and studio director here at 535 Albany Street. So, Madam Chair, members of the board, thank you so much for the time. Mr. Ambassador, could you please go to what looks like slide number 10? So, as Mr. Morancy mentioned, the site is located right in the heart of P. B. D. Square. And as you can see, the red rectangle is our site. It is sandwiched between a collection of different community organizations, but it is indeed within about a two minute walk of astronaut T. station. Next slide, please. And as also as mentioned, the current use is a single story restaurant space. So, this single story building will be removed, and you can get a sense from the pictures in front of the Plaza space that has been installed in front of our site over the last decade to enhance the public use of P. B. D. Square. Next slide, please. Very quickly, kind of take you through a little bit of our massing approach. So, we do have a six story building in step number one. Number two, we are pushing the massing away from the south and the west, who are our two closest of butters. This also allows for us to apply light and air to the residential units on the south and on the west. We then break up the building into multiple slots and massing, which step number three, step number four, we're providing additional setbacks at the top two floors and along the ground floor as well. And then step number five is that we wanted to make sure that we were making a high impact gesture that compliments the strong architecture that exists currently in P. B. D. Square. Next slide, please. This is the ground floor that Mr. Nancy spoke about. So, as you can see, we have a over 3000 square foot restaurant runs front to back. We do have our required parking spaces in the lobby, and then there is controlled trash rooms for the residences and for the restaurant space. There is a small area out in front of the restaurant for some seating outdoor seating when the climate sort of allows it to next slide, please. Very quickly through the plans, I just mentioned that there is a small basement, and then we are providing a small roof deck for the residences of the building only. Next slide. This is a couple of views, or the longer views of the building throughout P. B. D. Square. A couple of things that we really want to also talk about here is that this is obviously this building is being built in the city of Boston or will be hopefully rebuilt. And it will adhere to the highest building codes right now, so this is intended to be pass-a-house, and it will be constructed of the highest level of construction detailing and quality. Next slide. Now, speaking with the community groups, I think one of the things that we were very concerned about was making sure that we were giving, that we were going to provide a building that was rich in material and rich in the city. In the period, and rich in detail, there are lots of significant architectural buildings in P. B. D. Square, and we wanted to set forth a building that would actually sort of live up to the standards that exist in P. B. D. Square. So we are looking at using a terracotta panel of multiple varieties here, along with some boil siding in the rear, and looking at sort of a slatted balcony, really well detailed collection of slats and railings on the front facade. This is the final two, just giving you a sense of that front ground level space with the restaurant, and how we hope to sort of enhance the public ground and activate that aspect of the property last slide please. And then again, just giving you a sense of we are paying a lot of attention to the detailing. So again, looking at a kind of rich terracotta product, we wanted to zoom in on this because it was it was a much topic of discussion during the article 80 process. I'll turn it over back to you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Any questions from the board? I'll just have to recuse myself from this project. Okay, we are a six member board. Any questions from the board? May I have public testimony? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor, new with the mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This time the mayor is obviously to defer to the judgment of this board. Some back information, the community processes was overseen by Boston Planning and following a public meeting in August. There were some concerns from some residents regarding the density in this particular P.B.D. Square area as well as setbacks, but many residents were very supportive of the proposal. They were looking forward to more housing units being built there and also felt this would be an improved use of this particular parcel without deferred to the board. Thank you. Next, we have an Estacia from Consul and Warls. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Next, we have a John. John, if you can meet yourself. Is there a speaker named John who wants to speak on this project? I don't see any other speaker. I live in the Echman Hill neighborhood, which the site is part of. I think that the components have presented to our neighborhood association a couple of times. I think that the vast majority of the neighbors who are paying attention are in support of the project for the reason stated additional housing and more of vibrant use of the site particularly with the restaurant. I speak just for myself, not for the neighborhood association, but I did want to weigh in. Thank you. I would like to be adopting the air and custody or partnership with streets in terms of maintenance. I know that we have had some kind of auxiliary improvements over time working with main streets in the community to supplement and support that open space and care of the space and the beautification. I worked on this project when it was built and there was filtration that is part of the buzzer and the pavers and the idea of the filter rain water. I was not sure if the component would be engaging in the LMI through the Public Improvement Commission or any kind of scope of care for the plaza itself. Sorry, Madam Chair, shall I respond to that? If there are no other comments, I think someone is having difficulty getting on, so they may want to put their comment in the chat. Yes, please. Go ahead. Thank you. Hi, Pat George, Marancy Pat. I will follow up with you outside of this meeting in with the Planning Department. There is a comment in chat as well about the Greater Ashmont Main Streeping, one of the custodians responsible for the plaza. So I think there are several issues that we can straight note. I will, Daniel Polanco is on. I will contact Daniel Polanco, see if he can loop in you and Todd Lyming. And we can probably set up a project meeting and specifically address the issues of the plaza that you answer the questions that you have. Okay, great. Appreciate that, George. Thank you. Thanks, Pat. Thank you. Okay. Any other, I don't know if that will want to address that last comment in the chat. Concerns about closeness to a building and privacy. Yes, so I think careful care was taken during the process to address concerns about setbacks and privacy. And as previous speakers have indicated, I think the vast majority of people are supportive of the project and their concerns were addressed. Obviously a project of this size is typically not going to have 100% support. We do understand that there are probably still some outstanding concerns. But we think that through the process, which begins, community process began July, sorry November, I think of 2023. We did our best to make adjustments to the building to address as many of the concerns as we could and believe that we've been responsible in addressing those concerns to the extent that we do have broad support in the surrounding community. Okay. Any other questions from the board? May I have a motion? May the motion to approve. Next second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Turner. Ever kissed by Ms. Canado. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Bernal. Yes. Chair votes, yes. The motion carries. Thank you. Next, we have case BOA 1-818413 with the address of 175 Heath Street. Is the applicant in the representant of the president with the position to vote? Yes, Mr. Stembridge. Could I have to do now, Chairman, is the board a 20 Derek small of a business address of 51 dogs and row? I'm representing the owner, same development. We're here today seeking relief to change the legal occupancy of the building from a one family dwelling to a two family dwelling. The zoning sub-district here is in L.I., which is local industrial, in our lot size approximately 4,250 square feet. The violations were being cited for as the use for bidding as the two families have been in use in the L.I. zoning sub-district and off street parking, which there is none on that section of Heath Street. The units will be unit 1 will be 3 bedroom to bath and unit 2 will be 4 bedroom to be bath. I think it's best illustrated if madam best or Mr. Mastor, if you can scroll down to the pictures, I think the pictures say a lot for the development property as it is directly across the street from the Heath Street housing development by B.A.J. and the Henderson School. On the side that the proposed two families on, there are a number of multi-family residential buildings consisting of six unit buildings, four unit buildings and some industrial buildings alike. These are the proposed, being shown now as the proposed elevations and floor plans. But again, if we can go to the pictures that were submitted, I think at the end of the slide presentation. Yes, that's the property. The first floor unit will be in the basement, part of it will be in the basement of the building. As you can see, most of the basement is above grade. And again, on that side of Heath Street, there are several other multi-family residential buildings. That one being shown is a three-fifth, Emily the one also being shown is another three-fifth. And again, this zoning some district, which is the local industrial renders the existing properties that already exist as pre-existing, not conforming. I can start there and answer any questions that the board may have. Again, those are just pictures of other buildings, the multi-family buildings on that side of Heath Street. Are there questions from the board? Hearing none, may I have public testimony? Madam Chair and Board Members, see Johnson with the Office of Neighborhood Services. This applicant completed the community process. Our office hosted in a butters meeting on September 11th, 2025, at which no concerns were raised. The applicant met with a community aligned to the Mission Hill, and we are not aware of any concerns from that group. That background judgment is deferred to the board. Thank you. Madam Chair, the community aligned to Mission Hill, I also submitted a letter of support for this project as well. Thank you. Any other hands raised? Is this? No, another additional comments. Thank you. Would that be a motion? Motion. Motion approval. Is there a second? Very good. Thank you. Mr. Soundridge. Yes. Mr. Ronesio. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Panado. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Renaud. Yes. Chair votes yes, the motion carries. Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I was a boarder. Have we met? Next, we have case B.O.A. 1-0-4-9-7-8 with the address of 728-720 Sharma Lab. It's the applicant and the representative of the president, with the address of the funding for the board. Yes, I'm here. My name is Jean Semy, the one-third owner of Change A. I'm a RLC. Please proceed. Sure. I'm funding the board for Change A.R.C.S. 728. We're changing from our changing from our meeting hall, conference hall to the public's social hall, and to the Pymitttick, our restaurant bar, and Ontario Build Off for a takeout restaurant as well. Are there questions from the board? Yeah, public testimony? I'm Adam Chair, members of the board for the recommended Ms. Jeremy Bemberer. I'm the Roxbury Community Engagement Specialist for the Office of the Neighborhood Services. The applicant has completed the community process, which consists of an abuters meeting facilitated on January 22nd, very lightly attended. Abuters' voice concerns for late night noise. How parking would be handled, and whether the proposal was more of a club or sit down, family-style restaurant, or club-like restaurant. The concern was raised due to how other restaurants owned by the opponent, and I will more club-like with poorly managed parking. Abuters also voice concerns for loitering in the alley, and an increase of rodents and trash have not well managed. The neighbors stated that they work well with other businesses in the area regarding these issues, including dining parking, as well as takeout parking, littering, loitering, and road and control, and hopefully get a work with the owner if the proposal is approved. To date, our office does not receive any further community feedback. Thank you for your time, and the best office in the neighborhood services. We'd like to defer to the board for the judgment. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, we have no additional comments. May I have a motion? Can I actually hear a response to some of those concerns about late night hours, and like all the concerns that were just listed? In particular, what are the hours of the rest? Yes, from the applicant. How do you plan to deal with parking and noise? The disturbance has from the noise. This is going to be a sit-down restaurant. It's a takeout for one-side, and it's a very small restaurant that only seats about 30 people. So it's not going to be a nightclub, a type of restaurant to sit down, family environment, and we're open-laden to one o'clock, because we have a takeout section, which is going to kick us all to the students in the area. And as far as parking, I believe the street that is on is public parking, and we're working with organizing plans to have that parking where traffic grocery is for additional parking. Okay, thank you. You're welcome. Any other questions from the board? May I have a motion? Much enough for a minute. Is there a second? I can't read. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Ms. Canado. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Bonneau. Yes. Chair votes, yes. The motion carries. Let's take a 15-minute break. We'll be back. Recording stop. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Let's see. let's fix our fault. Let's fix our fault. The problem is that we will ignore a truck and we lead in thełos will begin. the business address of 20 heart plaza. I represent the applicants in this matter. Dr. Caroline Mullin and Mr. Jed Kelly. Dr. Mullin is a doctor at BMC and Mr. Kelly is a director with Wayfair. They are seeking to add two small bays to the back of their unit. If we could scroll down to page three please. I think that's probably the easiest to just see what we're looking at here. Maybe it's not. I'm sorry could we go further down you can see the design of the room. Maybe it maybe. Is that too far? Come back up please. I'm sorry. Yeah there we go. So this is one level and there's another one that shows the same thing. In essence they're seeking to add a little bit of space total of 36 square feet per floor. You can see it basically represented in that box there. It's adding basically bumping out four feet. The width of the obviously same as the existing room. So it's adding a little four foot of depth 36 square feet on each floor. My clients have three daughters currently. 9, 7 and 4 and they have a fourth baby on the way. So they're looking to just add a little bit of breathing room that's your room's added issue here. This one is a bedroom and if you scroll to the similar page which I think it's maybe up one page. No maybe up one page. Yeah there you go and a playroom. The only relief being sought is a small expansion and non-confroying use. I believe that that's relates to when the deck was originally built. It was a rear setback and so the relief grant of the rear setback and this these bays will extend out into what is already deck. So it's really not going any closer to the rear line. Just to be clear the bays will not sit on the deck. They will be cantilevered so they'll stand alone. Part of the deck will remain but basically the building will just come out in additional four feet on two levels to give 36 square feet on each level and it's serve you could scroll down I think two pages from there. There you can see so from the rear that's where it would look like. It's basically it's a rectangular. It's rather than a bowed bay. It's basically a rectangle four feet bumping out onto what is existing deck but it will not sit on the deck. You can see there are sliding door with a transom in the middle and then there's some wood be annuling around the edges. I think that's it. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? May I public just the morning? Hello Madam Chairman this is a board meeting. This is on the Jones Office. I'm sending the mayor's office to neighbor services. For Gerdin's I believe you want the staff office to first report to the board's judgment. The community process was conducted including and a butter's meeting held on Thursday. It's a very fifth of this year that was well as well as the health and community. We're convinced where conversation was productive and no main screens for express. The proposal was also reviewed by the Paramount Neighborhood Association at their meeting and they have expressed support through a letter to the board. At this time taking the way the office of the neighbor services differs from the board's children on this matter. Thank you everyone here. It's a great pleasure. Madam Chair there no additional comments. Okay. May I have a motion? Motion to approve? Better second? Yes. Mr. Lawrence here. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Pannato. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Bernal. Yes. Chair votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you all. Next we have case BOA 1-1-7-4-9-2 with the address of 107-111 Brook Street. The applicant, the individual, they represent our presence. Well, they have to explain to the board. Thank you Mr. Stembridge. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board attorney Jeff Drago with Drago and Tuscano with the business address of 11 Beacon Street. Here on behalf of the applicant Matt Schuster and we also have David Choi who's the architect with us today. What you're looking at is existing conditions at 1-07-1-11 Brook Street. It's an apartment complex with a church and our proposal is to change the occupancy from six residential units in a ground level church to eight residential units which is much more conducive to this neighborhood and we'll show you in a few slides. That is also going to be made possible by erecting a vertical addition and full interior gut renovations to create the eight residential units. If you can go to the next slide please. Thank you. You can just see given this area there's multi-family residential apartment style complexes in and around this area as well as three family residential up and down this corridor. The law that we have is the larger of all the laws in this block at 5,000 square feet and although this falls on an EBR-3 all of the conditions are existing on the sites. We're keeping the existing structure and infilling to match the first building which I'll show you. Sort of a series of one large building that drops in the middle and in the back and we're looking to raise that to match it at three stories which is allowed under the code in the area in terms of the heights so we meet the height requirement. All of the other variances are pre-existing and we're just increasing a few of them. Next slide please. These are just other existing conditions. You can see the residential component or multi-family residential component up and down this area of Berks Street. Next slide please. And this just as you can see it the three story building in the front and as you go back it drops to two one and then three so we're proposing is that vertical addition to infill and then rework the interiors and add that additional unit where the commercial space would be now. If you look at the BPDA recommendation of support they support the fact that we were utilizing the existing structure and not tearing down a raising of the building in any way. The variances needed go to the next slide Mr. Ambassador. All of the variances needed are all pre-existing violations. What we are increasing is the use by adding the additional unit as well as the off-street parking which we require an additional spot although we're not able to create parking. We aren't far from MBTA Blue Line T Station but you know by keeping the building we're not able to add additional or add parking to the site. We did go through an extensive community process and got the support of Eagle Hill Civic Association who appreciated that we were going to do the exterior of the building over as well as well as renovating the inside and bring this full fully up to building code by sprinkling the whole building as well. The proposed breakdown of the units unit one and most of these are existing as a four bedroom unit two is a four bedroom and then unit three four and five are all two bedroom unit six is a three bedroom unit seven is a two bedroom and unit eight is a three bedroom and they range from 2,000 square feet to 720 square feet on average. With that I can pause and answer any questions that may have. Excuse me. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? Hearing none may I have public testimony? It was also reviewed by the Eagle Hill Civic Association that they're meeting on 12926 the Association expressed support and voted six yes and three now about the proposal. At this time there is absolutely a service, there is a service, there is a course, Judge Namaste Madder thank you everyone for your coming consideration. Thank you. Next we have Stefan Marie from Consulate's Colleta office. Hi. Hi thank you. Stefan from Councilor Colleta's to plant his office. We just wanted to go on the wreck like any support of this project at this time. Thank you. Thank you. And there was one additional person David Chaud. Thank you. I was looking to speak on this case. No, I'm the architect. I think Mr. Tragos spoke well of this project. Thank you. Okay. My name is Chirpin with additional comments. Any other questions from the board? May I have a motion? Motion to approve. Your second? You're Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. This turn. Yes. This panato. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Bernal. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. The motion carries. Thank you very much. Move on to the three discussion cases scheduled for 11 30 a.m. or ask again if there are any requests for withdrawals or deferrals. And with that we move on to case B.O.A. 1776341. The address 19 Badwell Street. If the applicant and who are the representative present with it, please close the board. You see raised hands. Pizzus for 19. Bob. No. And we'll run that chair and come back to that later. We'll take us to two companion cases. Please. It's B.O.A. 1766723 with the address 49 51 calendar street. Along with that we have case B.O.A. 1766728 with the address of 53 calendar street. If the applicant and or the representative are present with it, please find the board. Yes. Thank you. Mr. Stembridge. Madam Chair. Members of the board. The training Ryan Spitz with Adam Zomerance. He's business address of 168 H Street for his floor. So Boston. Joining me today is the owner Michael Lou as well as the project architect David Fried. The proposed project would like to renovate and verbally expand the existing two-family dwelling to a three-family dwelling located at 49 from 51 calendar street. And they erect a new three-family dwelling at 53 calendar street on the same 8,622 square foot combined lot. All the proposal falls within a three F five thousand sub district. A conditionally used permit will be required for having two or boys dwellings on the same lot. 49 from 51 calendar street change of use to a three F by verbal addition to create a fourth free story building, a rare addition. It will be fully sprinkled in a fire alarm upgrade basement underpinning to create habitable space on the lower level. Unit A will consist of first floor in the basement which will be a three bedroom ranging approximately 1,553 square feet. Unit B will be located on the second floor of three bedroom approximately 1210 square feet in unit C on the third floor. Another three bedroom approximately 1210 square feet. 53 calendar street. It will be the new three-family that's going to be erected. A three-story building constructed on the western portion of the lot. The mirror plan of the renovated 49 calendar street except that there will be no livable space in the basement. All three units will range approximately 1210 square feet per upper floor with the compatible first floor unit, proposed sprinkled and as well as an updated fire alarm system. Procken will be accessed by a new curb cut on Kalamazhry to provide six off-street parking spaces served by permeable papers, landscape areas with plantings and preservation of the existing maturatories. We have the following violations for 49 through 51 Kalamazhry, two or more dwellings on one lot, although second structure on the same lot is reasonable as it is twice the size of other lots in this neighborhood. Lot area and additional lot area, the lot required if for two structures containing three units in each would be 12,500 square feet and the lot is 8,622 square feet. We have a flurry of ratio, violation as the requirement is a point eight, the proposal that at this address is 1.16, but again consistent with other neighborhood flurry of ratios. We have a side yard setback violation, 10 feet is what is required by the code, but the structure has a 6 foot three-inch side yard setback, but again consistent with other side yard setbacks on the neighborhood. Rayyard is 30 feet is the requirement, proposal cost been 27.5 feet, but it's consistent with other rail yard setbacks on the neighborhood. And lastly on this one we have an open space violation. However we believe this was incorrectly cited as the requirement is 400 square feet per unit in the proposal cost for a requirement of, I mean a cost for a proposed 416 square feet per unit. Next moving on to the violations for 53 Kalamazhry, I'm not going to be too redundant, and get into an in-depth, but we do have two or one's, one's, one's not, just the same is 49 to 51, same thing with the lot area, an additional lot area. Again the flurry of ratio, we do have a violation for this is slightly more than what was proposed at 49 to 51 is this one consists of a 1.47. We do have a slight height violation on this property at 35 feet is what is required is the max. The proposal here is at 36.3 feet. Side yard setback violations again, we have the same exact rear yard, the side yard setback is 3.5 feet on the left hand side of the building, and the rear yard again is the same as as 49 to 51 at 27.5 feet, and parking is efficient was cited on this refusal letter, however it was incorrectly cited as 0.75 per unit as the requirement, and there is one for one parking with this proposal, so at this point in time, Madam Chair, I'm going to turn it over you for any questions or comments from the board. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? If you just review the site plan and the parking? Yes, if we can bring that back up, and David Fried is also here as well. Okay, so, yes, so again, there's going to be the ship, well, there'll be a ship rideway between the two cars. If you go back to that other place, please. Yeah, so this is the architectural site plan. Here, as you can see here, we're going to use that dragway as a share driveway between the two properties. There'll be two parking spaces on the left hand side, and there's going to be four parking spaces on the right hand side. Okay, thank you. In each space, Ms. Penelope just worth knowing each space, so there'll be one committed space per unit. These these are just the, yes, you know, the Department is recommending the thank review to ensure that parking layout is improved to increase your civil openness pace just for you to know. Yes, yes. So one thing that I do like to work knowing this is going to be ownership, so there's going to be condos and hopefully if approved the way the current layout is it'll be one for one per unit. Thank you. May I have public testimony? Madam Chair and members of the Board for the Reggaed Management and Disgierre Rebemberer of the Madapet and Community Engagement Specialists for the Office of the Opposition and the Board Services, the applicant has completed the community process which consists of a very lightly attended a buzz meeting to facilitate the September 29th. With no questions or concerns, the proposal will move forward to present a Franklin Field Self-Nablehood Association when they vote on the opposition to the proposal. To date our office has received the one letter of opposition from the Franklin Field Self-Nable Association opposing the requested variances and asking that the Board uphold their zone record regarding the article 80, the article 60, excuse me, violations. Thank you for your time and the mayor's office of neighborhood services would like to defer to the Board for their judgment. Next, we have an association from Council with the Waters Office. You guys, Madam Chair, members of the Board from the Community of the Hobbes County World, would like to go on record and further this paragraph because it's often in the title of home of those with opportunities for residents with a bit of priority to the health. Thank you. Madam Chair, there are no additional comments. Madam Chair, if I could just briefly respond to Mr. B. Ember's couple of statements. So he did in fact for the failed to mention that we do have one letter of support for an immediate direct-to-beta which was submitted. The opposition came from the civic group but none of those members who had concerns which was the civic group themselves were immediate direct-to-beta is north of the partake in the about us process except for just posting that meeting that one day. Thank you. Any other questions from the Board? May I have a motion? Motion to approve with the planning department to review in particular the site planning and the park. Thank you. Very second. Mr. Steinberg is thinking. Yes. Yes, thank you. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Turner. Yes. Ms. Canado. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Or now, Mr. Bringles. Chair votes yes. The motion carries. Thank you. Next we have case B.O.A. 1-8-1-36-55 with the address of four Hane Street. If the applicant and their or no, the representative of the president, would they please claim to work? Thank you. Mr. Steinberg, thank you Madam Chair. Members of the Board, Attorney Jeff Dregor with Dregor and Tuscana with the business address of 11 Beacon Street here on behalf of the applicant and with me I also have David Fried who is part of the memo that we submitted to the board. Just by way of background what you're looking at is a project that was approved back in August 8th of 2023 for four residential units. One of the ground up, you can see where you're parking on the ground level for three spaces and then residential above two of the units were approved. They have an upper and lower level. So by level units, this project was already under construction operating under an at-risk permit. The original plans examiner had left inspection services department upon a new a permit review for the full permit application. It was discovered that a few items had to be brought back to the board. One of which was really a board final armeter issue because the violations were already existing, but we had to increase them. And the reason for the increase was when the original project was approved the requirement for the second means of the egress stair was not asked of us or of the applicant. And so the original plans did not have a second or were not required to have a second means of egress even though the building was fully sprinkled upon review. One of the new code, we were asked to add a second means of egress. So everything under the original approval remains for units, the interiors, the same the only thing we had to add from the fourth floor was the second means of egress. And by doing that, it increased had to be an enclosed staircase. It increased the FAR slightly, open space slightly was reduced and then the side yard set back was slightly changed. So those three issues fell under pre-existing violations that were cited, but were increased or changed in some capacity. Also the former plans examiner did not cite the project for some new violations. One of which was on a footnote. So we went ahead upon the permit process and went through G-Cod and submitted all of our plans and got water and so we're signing off. But G-Cod was actually missed as an actual violation. And also a lot area, additional lot area in front yard. Again, all of the plans remain exactly the same except for the staircase, but because those violations were missed originally, we were asked by Boston Respectional Services Department to come back before the board for relief on those additional violations. And so with that, I also have David Fried here who was part of the memo that we submitted. We can answer any questions that the board may have about that slight change. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Hearing none, we have a public testimony. Oh Madam Chair, I'm a blue boy. My name is Edna Jones. I'm the main staffs to Neighborhood Services. Regarding foreign agency, the first was a board's judgment. A community process was conducted, including on a budget meeting held on 1027-22, expressing concerns, citing density and parking in the neighborhood. The proposal was also reviewed by the Jeffers Point Neighborhood Association that they're meaning on 1823, where positive feedback with share regarding the architectural changes made to be one line with neighborhood and the development teams' communication and responsiveness with the community. At this time, the Mayor of Boston Neighborhood Services differs from the board's judgment on the sparring. Thank you everyone for your family consideration. Thank you. Next we have Stefan Marin from Consulate Coleta. Hi everyone, Stefan from Councilor Coleta. I support this office at this time. We'd like to go and support this project. Thank you so much. Thank you. Good morning, Mr. Mundeli. Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the boy, Christian Sumnerly, Boston, Brown, and Otterust. We have both Chica Les from Yath. And finally, is Treet? Yes, it's Hi. Yes, hi there. My name is Treet Clemens. I'm a Director of Butter to 67 Webster Street and I'm here with my wife, Allison, whose joint is a guest on this call as well. We're in general a very supportive of development. In fact, Jeffrey, the plans for this look beautiful. I appreciate you keeping it in line with the aesthetic of the neighborhood. We're just simply asking the board to condition approval to protect abouting properties from groundwater and drainage impacts. The project maximizes coverage on the lot. And it's an area that the city already considers too small. The lot is 1800 square feet, where 2000 square feet is required. This falls short of the 4000 square foot additional, lot area requirement, and there's zero front yard setback where five feet is required. Our 1920 building, which is directly adjacent, as a basement with existing moisture concerns, and is also within the GCOD, the groundwater trust monitoring data shows a nearby well declining from 9.5 to 7 BCB with readings below the no harm threshold. Another well has also dipped below 7 BCB and a third that's nearby when dry was decommissioned, meaning this area has documented groundwater stress and now has less stress monitoring coverage than it once did. We ask that the board ensure surrounding homeowners are fully protected from increased water or structural risk and requests that any approval require a BWSC approved recharge system capturing at least one inch of rainfall over the impervious area and no harm certification from the licensed professional engineer that specifically addresses impacts to adjacent properties including ours. Demonstration that groundwater recharge will be maintained at current levels, stormwater controls preventing runoff towards the letters, construction phase safeguards to protect neighboring foundations. We'd also like to ask the board to confirm that both BWSC approval letter and the no harm certification have been received in our part of the record and to consider that granting dimensional variances to allow more building on an undersized lot increases the burden on the groundwater recharge system that the protections should be scaled accordingly. Thank you. I'm going to turn ahead and order the schmalk comments. Mr. Sannanelli, would you like to reconfirm? Yes, Madam Chair. So just to confirm we have both the G-Cott approval and the no harm letter. The G-Cott approval letter as with most systems that are designed does have an overflow but is tied into it so in the event of a large storm and the system fills up there's an overflow that's tied into the adjacent water and sewer infrastructure and the no harm letter certification does just that it certifies that the installation of this system and the work to be accomplished at this address is not going to have a negative impact at current or adjacent properties. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? May I have a motion? Make a motion go through. There a second. I can. Thank you, Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Panado. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Rinal. Yes. Chair votes. Yes, the motion carries. Thank you very much, Madam Mr. Bort. Have a great day. All right. Thank you, everyone. Oh, wait. Is there- was there someone who saw the next case has been withdrawn? So that will take us back to the first case. We'll learn 30 and we'll ask if anyone is available for a case me away. 177-6463-41 with the address of the 19th bottom wall street. Hearing no one managed here, I will have to move out before the motion out the front to the front. Okay. Is there a second? They're called. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Panado. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Rinal. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. The motion carries. Thank you. All right. Would that have a have a good day, everyone. Thank you.