 you bolana I'll start over. Good morning, the city of Boston, Zoning Board with New Hearing for August 13, 2024 is now in session. This hearing is being conducted in accordance with the applicable provisions of the open meeting law, including the updated provisions enacted by the legislature last year. The new law allows the board to continue its practice of holding virtual hearings until March 2025. This hearing of the board is being held remotely via the Zoom webinar. Event platform this hearing is also being live streamed. In order to ensure this hearing of the board is open to the public, members of the public may access the hearing from telephone and video conferencing. The information for connecting to this hearing is listed on today's hearing agenda, which is posted on the public notices page of the city's website Boston.gov. Members of the public will enter the virtual hearing as attendees, which means you will not see yourself on the screen and will be muted throughout unless administratively unmuted when asked to comment. Board members, applicants and their attorneys or representatives will participate in the hearing as panel us and they will appear alongside the presentation materials when speaking. Panelists are strongly encouraged to keep video on while presenting to the board. As with our in-person meetings, comments and support will be followed by comments in opposition. The order of comments is as follows. Elected officials represent those of elected officials and members of the public. They chair me a limit the number of people called upon to offer a comment at a time for commenting as time constraints require. For that reason, the board prefers to hear from members of the public were most impacted by a project and those individuals who live closest to the project. If you wish to comment on a panel, please click the raise hand button along the bottom of your screen in the zoom up and on platform. Click it again and your hands should go down. When the host sees your hand, you will receive a request and meet yourself so that yes, and you should be able to talk. If you're connected to the hearing by telephone, please press star nine to raise and lower your hand. We must press star six to unmute yourself after you receive the request from the host. Those will call upon to comment will be asked to state their name and address first and then provide their comment. In the interest of time and to ensure that you have enough time to do so, please raise your hand as soon as Mr. Stembridge leads the address into the record. Without raise your hand before the relevant address is called, the meeting goes from about no to calling you at the appropriate time. Mr. Stembridge. Good morning, Madam Chair. Mr. Browns. Mr. Browns. Mr. Langem. Good morning, Madam Chair. Good morning. Ms. Weel. Good morning, President. Good morning, Mr. Calabas. Good morning, Madam Chair, President. Good morning, Ms. McGall. Is Ms. McGall with us? Okay, so with that we're a six-member board right now and I will turn it over to Mr. Stembridge. Thank you, Madam Chair. We will begin with the extension scheduled for 9.30 a.m. I will read all of the extension for us one after the other and then we will ask for a motion on those extensions. These are all asking for one year extension so we'll go from there. We'll begin with case B-O-A, 788, 662, with the address of 587, all many street. Then we have case B-O-A, 1, 2, 7, 9, 0, 2, 2, 2, the address of 198, all prepared. We have 8 bumpy hill street. Then we have case B-O-A, 947, 520, 121, works on Avenue. Case B-O-A, 667, 111, with the address of 151 Liverpool Street. Next we have case B-O-A, 109, 738, 111, with the address of 14 Scala Street. And finally we have case B-O-A, 119, 2263, with the address of 335 Chelsea Street. And that are the extension for us this morning. Any questions from the board? May I have a motion to grant the extensions as requested? I make a motion to grant all of the extensions for one year. Can I have a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Ms. Berberaza. Yes. Mr. Langham. Ms. Ma'am. Ms. Muehwell. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Yes. Ms. Muehwell with us. Okay. The chair votes yes. The motion carries. Next we move on to board final object case, 109, 308. That is case B-O-A, 667, 111, with the address of 151 Liverpool Street. 50 out of 151 Liverpool Street. Present. We think. Please explain. Anthony is on. Give me one second. Here's some issues. Come right into a panelist. Anthony, if you're on, can you raise your hand? Okay. It's only thinking they have dropped off. Someone's hand is going up and down. Yes. That's him. Ms. A. L. Is A. L. L? Okay. Oh. Okay. Second. Anthony, go ahead. I send the request. I'm your. Yes. Good morning. Yes. A. L. L. I'm sorry. That's my initials. Anthony L. with JC, as opposed to the word all. Forgive me for that. Madam Chair, members of the board. Again, I'm Anthony with JC. I'm in the motion. I'm a propitiate and loosening. 600 in Atlantic Avenue in Boston. I need to request the deferral of this. The project is subject to a small project review on Veronica Lady and the planning department. It wants us to go through the project change review process at the planning department because one of the changes involves a reduction in the Austrian parking. I'm going to go through the project. I'm going to go through the project. So I spoke into council. ISD. And at least she's on this call. And we had discussed the. Okay. All right. Thank you. Carol. Carol is is even trying to you. Did he speak to you? Yes, he did. Okay. Any questions from the board? What timeline do you need as far as the deferral? Well, I'm told that there is a. I did change review process for this type of modification. But the suggestion was 45 to 60 days. Okay. Do we have a date for him? Council, would you have heard November or December? I think December just to be safe. Sure. Would you like December 3rd or December 10th? Let's go with December 3rd. Okay. Okay. Would that be a motion? Madam Chair, I'd like to make a motion of a deferral to December 3rd. May I have a second? Second. Okay. Just a second. Yes. Is that a buzzer? Yes. Mr. Langem? Yes. Mr. Muehl? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Chair votes. Yes. The motion carries. Thank you very much. Now, moving on to the hearing schedule for 9.30 a.m. Where we're asking if there are any request for the calls or the thrills from this time. Yes. Mr. Secretary, Madam Chair, Attorney Nixon, Zoolom, and Dermnick Quote, Dean Miller and Handley, looking for a deferral on 46th High Street. Mr. Secretary, it's the last one on page 3. I believe it's the agenda. 46th High Street. So that would be for case VO8, 159, 9326 with the address of 46th High Street. Yes, sir. We have to go ahead. Go ahead. I'm sorry, Mr. Secretary, go ahead and I apologize. We'll do good. I didn't expect that. Yes, sir. Sorry for that. Madam Chair, members of the board, looking for a deferral. We've got a lot of community and planning input as to the project that we are hoping for some more time to review and address before we come before we go. So we're looking for a deferral on this project, please. Thank you. What time frame do you meet? A few months. We could do September 24th, October 8th, or October 29th. I think let's do October 8th, please. Would that be a revolution? I make a motion to defer to October 8th. Wait a second. Backhand. Mr. Stonewood? Yes. Is it better for us? Yes. Mr. William? Yes. Let's do well. Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Chair Mocheste, the motion carried. Do you agree, then? Thank you. Madam Chair, if I may, Attorney Jeff Trago would trade you on to Scala with a business address of 11 Beacon Street. Is it still confirmed there is a six-member board? Yes. At this time, yes. Okay. We would like to seek a deferral for 36 and 36 A Layton Street board one. Okay. So the request is for case B-O-A, 161, 6380, with the address of 36 Layton Street, along with case B-O-A, 161, 6380, and 3-4 with the address of 36 A Layton Street. Would you please explain? Yes. Thank you, Madam Chair. I'm Mr. Board Attorney Jeff Trago. Again, we were planning on moving forward, but we would like a time when there is a full board, so we would seek a deferral at a time at the board's discretion. Okay. Any of the dates that were mentioned workable for you, Mr. Dregor? The earliest one would be fine since what we played at community last. Mr. Cala? So does Tuesday, October 8th work? Sure. Okay. Okay, would that mean I have a motion? Madam Chair, before a motion of deferral, we're up to 8. Madam Chair, second. Second. Second. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Berraza? Yes. Mr. Layton? Yes. Mr. Wewell? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Mr. Volcice, the motion carries. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. That's fantastic. Man and Jam, we're going to put my routine to that. I live in St. Petersburg, that whole street in Charleston, Street, Bucket, and J. It's about that point out, the street also in Charleston. We can walk you through the plans here. But we want to just roll up all of that to the first page. Sir, I don't know if you can speak more directly into the mic. You're a slight, you're a little bit muffled. See? You're not in that now? Keep going. Well, we'll see. Okay. We hear it better, Bob? Yes. Okay. Okay, so we got these three worshiping relief. Number two articles here with the zoning code. One is for area ratio, be sensitive. It's a group structure restriction. It's best to floor area ratio. It's related to the additional living space that we are hoping to have. Well, we're above the unit one. We're going to have a third bedroom down there, like another doctor in office. There's still available. That's good, but brings us over at the bar. So first level, this unit will happen another pass with that back. And the third bedroom is front of the house with two addition bathrooms for each of those bathrooms. If you scroll down to Bob and page. We have unit two and three shone here with unit two, heavy. Three bedrooms as well. And we're going to run back in another one next to one of the back. Kitchen with real. Thumps and outdoor space of ducking off the back. Unit three is going to have this roof deck that's hopefully going to be a L2A. It's going to be the access to the above hatch within the unit. So only unit three will have access to the roof deck. If you have the deck off the side, which is consistent with the levels below. As I said, this will be the only unit that will have access to the deck. Listen, it will also be a through the two backwards laundry in the unit. Okay, any questions from the board? Hearing none, Mayor Public Customs. Madam Chair, members of the board, Sigi Johnson with the mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This petitioner has completed the ONS community process. Our office hosted and the butter's meeting on June 12th at which no concerns are raised. We're raised. Our office is unaware of other concerns at this time. And we defer to the judgment of the board with that background. Thank you. Thank you. And actually have no way since the moment. Okay. Without motion. And, Chair, I would like to confer a motion of approval with a proviso that the roof deck sides be inset five feet from the roof. Is there a second? Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Is Ben Abrazo? Yes. Mr. Langel? Yes. Ms. Lugel? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Mr. Welsch. The motion carries. Thank you. Next, the case has been reaffirmed, so we're going to case to zero eight 1 5 9 6 9 1 5 with the address of 175 f street. If the applicant and only their representatives present, please request. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. Mark LeCast, LeCast Law, 75 Arlington Street in Boston, Attorney for the Applicant. Also on the hearing are the project proponents of an Inc and David Lank of Sharp Venture Group and the architect for the project, Pedro Lucas from Zephyr Architects. Before you on the screen are the plans as revised, following the community review process and I understand that the revised plans were posted in these are the plans that are before you. The property consists of four parcels of land running from West Third Street on the right-hand side of that image down the hill on F Street, two Bolton Street on the left-hand side of the image. And as you can see and the architect will speak to a little bit more, the design features three separate masses yet constitutes one building which consists of nine residential units with six parking spaces on the lower level accessed on the Bolton Street side of the property. Currently there's just one small single building in the middle of the parcel and the balance of the lots are a personally vacant, so this will take largely underutilized vacant parcels and turn them into the units of presidential housing. The unit mix is varied. There are two three bedroom units on the top floors for two bedroom units, two one bedroom units and one smaller studio unit. The revisions since the planning department recommendation of approval memo, again as a result of the process, the there was a half top floor on the middle portion and the building now has been removed which resulted in the removal of the height violation in the original refusal letter and the revised refusal letter reflects the height violation has been eliminated. That also results in the reduction of the proposed FAR from 2.96, 2.67 and also the two private roof decks for the upper floor units were repositioned and pulled away from the edge of the building. The floor parcels consist of two middle lots on F Street and two corner lots, one on West Third and one on Bolton Street. Again, the existing building will be demolished and the entirety of the project represents new construction. As you can see the design is contemporary with materiality that reflects the context of the surrounding neighborhood, mainly wood and brick. And again, I don't have Pedro to speak. I want briefly to that as noted in the planning department none of the scale massing and multi-final residential use is consistent with the surrounding neighborhood. Excuse me. The property is .1 miles from the bus network along West Broadway and a short walk to the Broadway Red Line Station, which means the goals of increasing density, near transit and commercial services are aligned in Gold Boston and Imagine Boston, both planning studies commissioned in 2017. The planning department, NMO, does note that useful open space requirement is being part of the requirements being met with the creation of the two private roof decks and balconies and actually recommends that there be intent to increase the number of balconies to create additional open space. Next slide please showing the site plan to give you some context next slide. And the next one. That's existing. Yeah, okay, this one enlarged. So you can see on the upper portion of the site plan is Bolton Street, which is one of those small half streets since out of the Boston, F Street runs down the hill in a one way direction and Bolton Street runs one way from right to left. The building is somewhat bell shaped. You can see with the combination of the parcels Bolton and F and then the parcel to the right of the all portion of the building is owned by another entity not related to this development. But that remains open space. There is a note in the planning department, NMO, about a headhouse access to the roof decks and of course, as this board knows, the building code requires headhouse access. So we design as such to not draw the building code violation but are amenable to if this board deems that appropriateness part of the BPDA designer view to consider removal of the headhouses and introduction of hatches, which will require a separate subsequent drip to this board for the building code issue. But we are amenable to that. With that, I would just like to have Pedro Lucas speak briefly to the design iteration and the contextual concepts that the architects had in mind of the development of this new building on vacant parts of land, Pedro. Thank you, Mark. Good morning, everyone. My name is Pedro Lucas, it's F for architects. So like Mark mentioned, and I'll try to summarize here, we are proposing a multi-family building of 90 minutes in total with a mix of one, two, and three bedrooms totaling just about 10,000 square feet. To speak to our design decisions, we were thoughtful in its contextuality. Our height at three stories matches the neighboring context in our use of brick also references the neighborhood and F street in particular. The subdivision of the facade reflects the rhythm of the neighborhood. The width of the brick portion mimics the typical building with senior body. And the brick connects with a woodcladding on both sides to add warmth to the facade that will improve the pedestrian experience. In addition, we propose that greenery along that front facade where our foundation is exposed in order to improve the pedestrian experience for our neighbors. We're also proposing an elevator, like Mark mentioned, which provides us with the opportunity to create adaptable units. And lastly, as advocates, we're into our outdoor living. We've worked hard to provide outdoor space for our units. So in summary, we prioritized proposing a contextual size appropriate and thoughtful design that will be a positive addition to the neighborhood. Thank you. Questions from the board? Hearing none, may I have public testimony? Madam Chair, members of the board, Siggy Jocsuit, the mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This petitioner has completed the ONS community process or office hosted at a butters meeting on May 9th, at which some concerns were expressed about the decks on the property, although the design was generally supported by a butters. The St Vincent's Lower End Neighborhood Association, the active civic group in this area, declined to take a position on the proposal, although the proponents were in communication with them, but with that background, our office deferred to the judgment of the board. Thank you. Yes, the cut looks like Melissa Lowe from the Council of Florida's Office wants to be on it. Hi, Stier. What's the cut? Give me one second, so I'll... Okay, Melissa, one second. Great. Is there anyone else who's been in the process? I don't know. It's... Go ahead. We're trying to speak on behalf of Councillor Sains Office. Yes, we can hear you. Please proceed. Thank you. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is Melissa Lowe from Councillor Sains Office. The Council would like to go on the opposition base on feedback from neighbors and abouters, as well as the St Vincent's Lower End Neighborhood Association during the community process, neighbors consistently express concern on the high-investity, as well as a volume of what concerns emanating from the roof deck due to already existing issues in the neighborhood, with a butters reporting that they often have to call Boston Police on the party line on other nearby roof decks at all hours. At this time, as part of the top floor and roof decks remain, Councillor Flemme would like to oppose due to that feedback from neighbors and the St Vincent's Lower End Neighborhood. And neighborhood association, thank you. Thank you. Any other raised hands, Jessica? I do see an additional raised hand here in one second. Sachin? Hi, can you hear me? Yes, sir. My name is Sichin, but I live next to this property at 259 up both in street, and I did submit testimony earlier on behalf of 20 neighbors who are opposed to the project as it is proposed today, due to the height and the density of the project, it would be significantly taller than some of the similar family homes that are right next to the property. Okay. Thank you. Please play your two. Are you looking to give testimony on this proposal? Yes, sorry, my name's different. I'm friends with you. I'm the adjacent neighbor on both in street to this lot. And I just want to echo Sachin's comments, mainly concerned with the size difference in height as compared to our houses, looking at about 70% taller than our buildings on both in street in addition to the density of this building and the additional neighborhood and noise complaints as noted. The end date. I'm no additional in the skins at the moment. Mr. LeCasse, would you like to briefly respond to those concerns? Yes, Madam Chair, I'm sad that on height the revised plans reflect removal of the half top floor and the proposed structure is 40 feet, which is zoning compliant for this MFR sub district that maximum is 40 and the proposed height is 40. As for density, we believe that the separation of the building to three masses across the floor lots directly is contextual with the entirety of the road on F street coming down the hill on both sides of F street three story, multiple family residential buildings containing three or more units. So we think that the height is what we don't think, the height is only compliant and that the density is entirely consistent with the context of the neighborhood. We also submitted a package of our own support letters and there are at least a dozen letters addressing the very issues that have been raised by the opposition, expressing full support for the project in the introduction of new projects and the contemporary design of the project. I also wanted to add in response to the roof decks and how Councillor Plains office has opposition to roof decks when we did speak to some of the abutters on the roof decks, we didn't reposition the roof decks as far away from the concern and effect of the butter that's possible. We reduced the size of the roof decks by 45 square feet since conversations with the abutters and then we've offered design input from them from a permanent screening perspective, from acoustical and visual perspective. So our goals to work with the community to make everything as palatable as it can be to spite the concerns. And Chair, one of the support letters from Mr. Caltzman, OS 3rd Street notes the significant number of roof decks in this neighborhood, along with 3rd street, along with 2nd street, with first street bolts and aphids, there are pretty much roof decks and you can do a approval area view on pretty much every building in the neighborhood and Mr. Caltzman noted that those were never problem and did not represent an issue in the neighborhood whatsoever. With that, we'll include our presentation. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Very none. Is there a motion? Madam Chair, I'd like to put for a motion of approval with a proviso that the project undergoes Boston Planning Department's design review, paying special attention to site planning, specifically on the rear setback on Bolton Street and also to the review, the headhouse to make sure it's not visible from the street and lastly on the elevations. Is there a second? Certainly. Stembridge? Yes. Miss Byraza? Yes. Mr. Langdon? Yes. Miss Mewel? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. And we'll just ask the motion carries. Thank you so much. Thank you. Next, we have case of B08, 16 glurals, 3437 with the address 139 to 141 minute street. Is the applicant and who are the representatives of the front of the 20th? Please explain to the board. Yes. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Madam Chair, members of the board, Attorney Ryan Spitz with Adams and Arrancy, Business Adderice of 168th Street, First floor, South Boston. Joining me today are the owners, Michael and Maggie Nekuso, as well as the project architect Michael Schilling. This is a proposal to update an existing two-story, two-family dwelling by way of interior renovation, along with a rare, invertible addition, creating much more needed, additional living space for a growing family in this neighborhood. The third-story addition will expand the unit to a living space. The rare addition will create more space at the first floor. The proposal will also provide new rear index on first and second level, as well as widening the first and second floor front decks. The proposal is located within a two F5,000 sub-district. Unit one is the three-bedroom. We'll be continuing to be located on the first floor. Unit two will be located on the second floor, and the newly proposed there floor will be a floor bedroom. There are four zoning violations. We have a floor area ratio violation. The current floor area ratio violation is pre-existing. Now we can form a yet a point-fuck too. And the new proposal calls for point nine, three. What is allowed by code is a point five. We have a front yard and a side yard that is insufficient. Again, those violations are pre-existing non-conforming. Don't change as being made to the side yard setback at six point eight inches on the left-hand side. The changes to the front are due to the widening of the front decks. The front yard setback is at nine feet four inches. We also have a height violation. The building is compliant with feet, but has been cited for stories. There's two and a half stories is what is compliant in the proposal calls for three. At this point, I'm going to pause for any questions or comments from the board. Thank you. Any questions from the board? You're in nightmare public testimony. Good morning, Madam Chair and members of board. My name is Eva Jones, and I'm with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. At this time, the Mayor's Office was like the deferred of the judgment of the board. The community process was held for 139-141 minutes and the ministry on the buttons meeting was held on May 28th of this year and was lightly attended by three constituents, all who voiced their support. And Mr. Boylan said that he was fully supportive of a family staying in Boston. The proposal then went before the Theater Growth Civic Association on June 18th of this year and is supportive of the proposal as well. And work was said, the proponents be granted necessary relief to report with the project. At this time, the Mayor's Office was like the deferred of the judgment of the board. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you. Thank you. So for no Madam Chair, members of board, Liam Remiss from Council. Good old office. Our office is like the one record is pointless. Not. All right, because the document is said, he said, show 478 ahead. Thank you, please. New board. Good morning. Okay, sorry, Mr. Remiss, to be specific. Yeah, so Liam Remiss, Council for the Chair, I'll do office. Our office is like the one record is for this proposal. Thank you. Thank you. Any other raised handouts? Yep, Aaron, I see you here. You're unmuted. Hi, thank you. How long good morning. My name is Kevin O'Sullivan from Councilor Aaron Murphy's office. Madam Chair, members of the board, Councilor Murphy would like to go on record and support of this project standing with the community and the proponents. Thank you very much for your time. Any consideration? Thanks. And then I'm also going to make your panelists so that you can upheat yourself. And I have no additional raised hands at the moment. Okay, but that may have a motion. Make a motion to approve. May I have a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. This bed of browser? Yes. Mr. Langham? Yes. Mr. Lowe? Yes. Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Chair votes, yes. The motion carries. Great. Thank you. Next, we have case B.O.A. 1587720 with the address of 52R River Street. It's the applicant and where they represent this present. Okay, please explain to the board. And a morning, good day, Madam Chair, and members of the board. My name is Juan Soto and I reside at 52 River Street. I own apartment number three. 52R is a seven-unit condominium. My unit is located inside of the building facing River Street and gas station right next to me with an outdoor repair center in it. All other approaches in the building face north towards the Niponsa River. I am here today because I am looking to convert the roof section next to my unit into a simple roof deck. This area is only accessible from my unit. The plan to convert it into a deck has been fully better and approved by all other units in the building and the H.O.A. I would like to reference the second page on my presentation, the one above this one. Yep. So as you can see, the area in question here is the one that shows the railing on the right side. The two levels of windows that you see on the left side that is my unit. So as you can see, it is only accessible from my unit. On the next page, you can see the space that be more in context. So the green area is the roof deck. As you can see, the outdoor air and gas stations are very, very close to, too much to me. The plan for this space was developed by an architectural firm that reviewed the plans for the building and confirmed the structure of the area. The proposed plan is very, very simple. As you were able to see on the image above, it only consists on a decking to protect the roof and railing for safety. It is very similar, not identical to the other two roof decks or top-up by building as well as the ones on the above buildings. In addition to providing me with an outdoor seating area, it will hopefully mitigate the noises on the view from the gas station and the auto repair center that have outdoor lifts. It will provide shade and cover the black part that currently sits on top of the area that gets extremely hot, reducing hopefully the need to use a smudging scene during the spring and summer. And close up because we have very limited green area around the building. This space will provide more plan to help pollinate us and inset us. In the area, thank you and happy to answer any questions. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Hearing none, Mayor Public testimony? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Conor Newman with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This time, the Mayor's Office, I'd like to defer to the judgment of this board. So back our information and community process, ONS facilitated community meeting on May 20th. No opposition was voiced in the meeting and one attendee did vocalize their support. The applicant then went on to present to the River Streets of Association who supported the proposal, invited to roof. With that, we'll refer to the board this time. There should be a copy of that River Street Letter board has access to. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, we have no raised hands at the moment. But that may have motion. I'll make a motion to approve. May I have a second? Back in. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Ms. Barberaza? Yes. Mr. Langham? Yes. Yes. Ms. Wewell? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Chair votes, yes. The motion carries. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Next, we have case B.O.A. 158-6587 with the address of 1086 High Park Avenue. If the applicant and the way their representatives present, will their pleas be upon the case? Through the board. Yes, Mr. Stembridge. Good morning, Madam Chair. I'm Mr. Board of Attorney Derek Small of a Business Adjustment 51 Dops and Road Breitry Mass. With me today are the owners of the property, Ms. Petterby Brad James and Mr. Kirk Copeland. Madam Chair, we're here today seeking relief to rebuild and reconstruct the rear addition to this two-family house. The rear addition on the house was damage, heavily damaged by water due to a pipe burst in the property. So we are seeking to replace what was there minus the damage. Madam Chair, there's only some district here. There's a 2F-5000. Our lot size is 9,500 square feet. And we have one violation, which is a side yard insufficient. The requirement in this Sony sub district is 10 feet. We have 8.5 or 8.5 feet. And that is a preexisting, not conforming violation that is on the right side of the property. We'll stop there and entertain any questions that the board may have. Thank you, Mr. Small. Any questions from the board? Hearing none, may I have public testimony? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, cornering with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. This time, the mayor's office elected to defer to the judgment of this board. Some back-of-patient community process. Oh, nice host sitting at Butler's meeting on May 9th. That was likely attended. There were no concerns expressed in that meeting. The outcome went on to meet with the Hyde Park Midbury Association, which was the board of this proposal of that information will defer to the board at this time. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, we have no remains to hands at the moment. Do that may I have a motion? I may go motion to approve this project. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Pérezá? Yes. Mr. Langham? Yes. Mr. Muehwell? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Chair Rose, yes, the motion carries. Thank you, Madam Chair, members of the board, I'll be back. Next, we have case B.O.A. 160-0186 with the address of 67 Billings Street, the opposite. We can't end with the representative's present. Please explain the case. Good morning, Madam Chair and board. We are proposing to add a second floor along with attic space for storage for our current home or our growing family. We also are adding a 12 by 16, two-story addition to the back of the house. In summary, we'd be adding two bedrooms to the second floor, and two bathrooms, and then the storage for the attic space. The house to our left, which there was actually already an existing deck when we moved in there, we're just proposing to enclose it and put a second story for more space upstairs. And the other violation was the front where we would like to add a front porch. We thought it would make the house look better for aesthetics and we could watch our kids play out front. So that was our reasoning. Questions from the board? Hearing none, may I have public testimony? Madam Chair, members of the board, so you're on to it, the mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This petitioner has completed the OIS community process. Our office hosted on a butters meeting on May 29th, at which no concerns were raised. The proponents additionally appeared at the West Rocksbury Neighborhood Council's Zoning Subcommittee. They voted to support this proposal. With that background, our office declares to the judgment of the board. Thank you. Thank you. I'm Chair, I have no raised hands. May I have a motion? Yes, I'd like to make a motion to approve this project. May I have a second? Sorry, Madam. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Berberaza? Yes. Mr. Lennon? Yes, ma'am. Mr. Liewell? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Chair, motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Thank you. Next, we have case BLA 1617226, with the address of 53 to 55 Dustin Street. If the applicant and or their representative fund, would they please respond to the board? Yes, Mr. Secretary. Kyle Smith of Steterra Law, is this address of 359 Newtler Street in Boston's back bay. I'm happy to jump in if the board doesn't have any preliminary questions. They're missing. Okay. So we have a relatively decent size, a lot of about 5271 square feet. There's a pre-existing structure, which is a pre-existing two family, with approximately a footprint of about 1200 square feet. There's an existing drive, as you can see, with a garage that services two vehicles. The proposal, having personally been on site, I can tell you that this property that's been owned by the family for the better part of, you know, many generations about 100 years is in the need of a full gut rehab. The plan in this proposal is to convert existing living space on the third floor by adding dormers left and right, running literally down the property to expand the livable square footage in the attic space, the third floor, and also to take what is existing storage area, mechanicals in the basement, and to convert a part of it to approximately 684 square feet of livable square footage in the basement level, which would then be tied into the first floor unit. Therefore, rendering the building converted to two to three family. Part of the process will be updating all of the required safety systems, including the installation of spring clears, converting from a two to a three. So just running briefly through for you the refusal letter, we are adding a space to accommodate the third proposed separate unit. It does bring it into close proximity with the right lot lines. We have several maneuverability parking related issues, even though we do have an existing driveway and off-dreet garage in parking. The conversion to a three family-sided violation. We have a 0.6 allowable FAR imposed FAR after completion would be sub 0.7, 0.69. So we modest increase again, adding a slight amount of livable square footage in the existing third floor, and then also adding a six-nir-nated or storage feed of square footage to the livable square footage to the basement. We have a allow to in half stories per code by increasing the FAR livable area of the third floor, or technically having a three-store, three-bid-a-link, as another set of violation and then by building vertically through the dormers, we are then triggering exacerbation of the preexisting non-conformity for the front and the side setbacks. The only rule I'll just run through for you the units proposed first unit would now be a basement and combined first floor for a net three-bed, three-bath of approximately 1,700 and change of square feet. The second floor mirrors the first floor layout about 1,059 square feet. It is a three-bed, two-bath, and the third floor, the only real substantial differences that be livable area of the rear extension is not carried forward to the third floor, or carry upward. The proposal is to add a roof deck to that existing structure from exterior space for the third unit and the third unit is proposed to be 846 square feet and a two-bed, two-bath. We conducted BIA-IA meetings as an available test to act for us. We had, I think, a good reception in those meetings. We held the butter's meetings with lighter turnout but no negative feedback. So I think hopefully this property isn't the need of some TLC. I do have representatives of the family on the call. We do have the sons who are now co-owners and looking to undertake themselves as opposed to offloading it to a developer who would probably do something very similar. So we're trying to keep this inside of the family, her furniture, your new send rental purposes for the family. And with that, I'll happily turn over to the board for questions. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? Hearing none, can I public testimony? Madam Chair, members of the board, C. Johnson at the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services, this petitioner has completed the ONS community process. Our office hosted on a butter's meeting on June 11th at which no concerns were raised. Proponents additionally appeared at the regularly scheduled June meeting of the Brighton-Altz, an improvement association, the active civic group in this area. And that group is in support of this proposal. With that background, we defer to the judgment of the board. Thank you. Thank you, nice. And Chair, members of the board, Annabelle Groms from the Brighton-Altz and the Freedom Association, proponent, do present to the BIA and the BIA voted to support this project. Thank you. Thank you. I mean, it looks like we have no additional ways to answer the public. Okay. Any other questions from the board? Hearing none, may I have a motion? Madam Chair, I'd like to put forward a motion with a proviso that a motion approval with a proviso that the project eliminates that additional parking space. Is there a second? Second. Sorry. This is Caroline. I just wonder if that could be reconsidered because it could trigger other zoning violations. The zoning violation would be the parking requirement. Correct. I mean, I'm looking at the violations and they're cited for a ready-Austry parking design, Austrian parking requirements. They're already cited for Austrian parking requirements. Okay, so that would not. Okay. So that wouldn't have voted. Can I ask council? Yes. What's required for three unit in terms of parking? Yes, effectively doing so would eliminate our maneuverability and location issues, but then trigger a number of issues. So it would trade two zoning violations for another. Right. So then I think the option that we would have would be to have a motion of denoure without prejudice and have you come before us. To potentially, right? Or to move forward with the proviso and have you submit for for the additional violation with ISD. I think it sounds like you'll be back. Got to use any minchpin requirement or proviso? Right. So Caroline, can you provide us a little bit? Because we've run into this issue before. So if I was to trigger another violation or if Jeff Hampton's here, what would be the process for the applicant? So they would have to return again to the ZVA or the relief for reducing the parking space. Correct. But at least it provides them with an approval versus with the denial. It doesn't guarantee that it would be approved. So I think what I would like to move forward with the original motion, a motion of approval with a provider that eliminates that one additional parking space. Is there a second? There it is. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Is there a browser? Yes. Mr. Langham? Yes. Is we low? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Sherwell's yes, motion carries. I'm not. Yes, Mr. Hampton. Yeah, Kyle, if you wouldn't mind giving me a call offline after this, I'd be happy to talk with you about this. You have no objection. My concern too is if the community through that process objects to its removal, we could then raise concern, or otherwise have had none. But I certainly won't email you afterwards. Yeah, why don't you, shoot me an email and we can talk. Thank you. All right. Thank you. Thank you. Next, we have case daily, 1, 6, 0, 8, 5, 8, 6. I hope the address of three, flirty, very Cambridge Street, the applicant and a little bit of reference on the further, if they're closing to the board. Hi, if you're on, can you raise your hand for this proposal? Thank you. Mr. Dunham. Okay, I say we keep moving and we'll circle back. With that, we move on to case daily, 1, 5, 4, 6, 8, 6, 8, which is one of three capacity cases. The address for the first is 3a, flirty, cherished, along with that we have case b, o, a, 1, 6, 1, 3, 1, 6, 2, with the address of 1 to 3, 1, we, terras, and along with those two, we have case b, o, a, 1, 6, 1, 3, 1, 6, 6, with the address of 5, 1, we, terras. It's the applicant and no, the representative is present. They explain to the board. Yes. Hi, Senator. Thank you. Hi, Mr. Mayor. Thank you. Good morning. My name is Timothy Burke. I'm the architect for the project. I have a business address of 142 Berkeley Street in Boston. And also on the meeting is George Marancy, who is the attorney for the project. And George, did you want to make any introductory remarks? Yes, Jim. Thank you. I'm sorry. I had said that nothing connected when I, when I began my presentation. For the record, my name is George Marancy. I'm an attorney for the business address of 350 West Broadway in South Boston. I represent Patrick O'Soldan, who wants three, three A and five, Glenwood Terrace, a project architect in Virginia, spoke him on return to him. I have to talk about the project and the zoning a bit. The project is three connected parts that, as Mr. Stembridge mentioned, the planning department's recommendation does an excellent job of providing a simple explanation of what is being proposed under these three related applications, namely the demolition of the existing garage at three Glenwood Terrace, instruction of a new two family clothing building at three A Glenwood Terrace, which is currently vacant, and the addition of a shared driveway serving the three properties, which are, as I mentioned, in common ownership. The result would be a new two, would be two new dwelling units and six parking spaces, with three of those parking spaces serving three Glenwood Terrace, one serving three A Glenwood and two dedicated to five Glenwood Terrace. With respect to the zoning properties are located within a two F-5,000, two family residential, sub district in the Austin-Briton neighborhood article, significantly and also as recited in the planning recommendation, the site is further within the Austin-Briton needs assessment study area, which expresses concerns about both the affordability and the fact and the quality of the housing options within the area. This proposal would respond positively to that by adding a new two family building with two bedroom units and three bedroom units. We likewise agree with the planning department that will lose for the site at setback violations as appropriate in light of the size and shape of this corner lot site, configuration of the parking layout, prevailing setbacks in the neighborhood, as well as in the context of adding much needed new housing units to be area. Finally, we concur with planning recommendation that if through we would work with the planning department to eliminate or minimize any act on existing site trees while ensuring adequate vehicular new mobility, I would like to turn it over to Tim Burke to briefly walk the board through the project plans and then we'll take any questions from board members. Tim? Yes, sorry. Tim or George, just a quick question since we're on this slide. How many parking spaces are there now and where are they? There's currently an existing garage and as I say, it's green glenly terrace. The project site is on the left hand side which should propose two family residents. That's currently a vacant lot. The parking at number three glenly is essentially an existing condition in that tenant's formation. I believe that's all correct Tim. That is and we are adding parking behind number five as well. There's nothing there now. Is your question Madam Chair? Yes, ma'am. I guess I hope so. Thank you. I can if you want to go to the plan to be great. Yes, thank you very much, George. During the community process, we did hear a lot from the neighbors about the importance of parking and that's where we came up with this scheme that you're seeing on the screen now. It provides a lot of versatility to how the parking can work when visitors are over for just visiting for the evening or something they can park in the driveway and then pull it out without disturbing the regular parkers. The site is a unusual shape, site and a bit of a challenge but in our meetings with the neighbors, they did seem to like the idea of another two family. They like the idea of smaller scale housing being built rather than large giant projects. This is very similar to one that I did with the same honor around Appkin Street that was very successful in terms of filling in a space between two buildings that he already owned. The next drawing does show the plans of the building. It's a side by side, basically two family. The units run about 1140 square feet and the one that has two bedrooms and one has three bedrooms. So it would be suitable for our family, which was another thing we heard from the neighborhood. And on the next drawing shows the elevations of the project and it's designed to be using traditional forms of the neighborhood, sliding double hung windows and cable roofs. So we feel it's going to be a nice addition to the neighborhood. Our hope is that it just fits right in and seems like it's always been there. Be happy to answer any questions you may have. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? There's no questions, but Bob Domingo has commented on the chat and we get to get his opinion on this project. But Bob, to answer your question, we did receive your comments. They're very helpful from the Boston Transportation Department and it weighed in a law on the last project. So it just went to comment on that. Mr. Ryan, Mr. Burke, so the feedback was to remove two spaces in the front yard for the three, eight, and then they didn't like to respond to that. We go back to the site plan. We don't have any spaces in the front yard, three, eight, and then we were adding two behind number five, which is at the top of the drawing. And we did create one spot on the side there on the sort of the back side of three A. So as Jim is relating the only parking is being introduced is the two spaces to the rear of five currently in that side yard or backyard side yard space. It's an unusually shaped lot. The single car parking at three A lonely the condition parking condition at three lonely is an existing condition. Now, that driveway has been their cars pulling in the parking in formation. But if four members were to look at a Google Earth shot, you would see that that is that is an existing condition. So it's the new parking spaces are three A, which is not in the front yard and five, which is clearly in the rear yard. I mean, the other issue that I have is our concern would be if there's families, you know, what makes us safer kids, it looks like, you know, for any of those four structures. This is seem very safe for children to roam around and around their house. I think that perimeter fences bordering the lots. In other words, creating a border fence between driveway area in the lots could be could be helpful. You can see in the green space areas indicated on the lots. You know, the driveway certainly. One's passed to the South clan south of number five and in plain north of number three. And then that parking space number three A is very close to the to the driveway exit or entrance anyway. But we could certainly look at that with the planning department if this way be approved. Okay. Thank you. Another question. Any other questions from the board? Here in the public testimony. Yes. Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board. Frank Mendoza here. Mayor's office of neighborhood services. We hosted in a butter's meeting for this project on January 11th at that. A butter's meeting. A butter's expressed concerns with parking size, density, shadow, noise, construction, setbacks, loss of green space and attractive. Mr. Families. Some other attendees at that meeting were supportive and expressed that they felt the project was necessary to support the developer and the parking was reasonable. We are aware that this project got be supportive of the White Nelson Improvement Association. We've not received any letters of support or opposition at this time. We'd like to go on record in the federal judgment of the board. Thank you. I'll find the answer. You're going to give testimony? Yes. Madam Chair, members of the board, Bob D'Emico, BTV. It's a beautiful project. The only thing. Well, it's un-missing something. I don't see the curb cuts shown on the plan. And I know there's already in place, but as I see them reflected on the drawing for, you know, the legal purposes, if you will. That's all I have to say. Thank you. Anna Bella. Madam Chair, members of the board, Anna Bella Gomez, the White Nelson Improvement Association. We'd like to go on record in the support. I think this is a great use of the vacant line to add much needed housing. And we do commend the developer for addressing the parking issues that the neighbors had a lot of concerns about. So we'd like to go on record in the support. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Can we clarify when you say just the parking issues? Do you mean enough parking or not? I don't know. Is that Anna Bella or the reflection? I'm not sure why that's referring. But what was brought up during meetings for that? I'm not sure. I'm trying to meet that person. Yeah. Thank you. Please do. Okay. Okay. Sorry about that. If you're still there. Yes. I concerned that there wouldn't be enough parking if another unit that two units were built. And so they address having parking Austria so that the neighbors concerned of losing on street parking for themselves to be addressed. Okay. Thank you. Good morning. Can you hear me? Yes, sir. Yes. I'd like to go on support of this. I know the person is the developer and he's got a good reputation. All those other properties fit in well with the community. Any maintains his property value well. I'm speaking on behalf of my mother who lives at 20 Great Clif Road. We grew up in that house and my brother also lives at 679 Washington Street with third generation bright residents in the neighborhood with only 20%. On a occupancy. We certainly appreciate the time to work that Mr. O'Cellvin does not always a businessman. But as a property owner, his properties are all well maintained and they all fit in with the community. So I'm in full support of it. And I asked the community and the ZBH also support this. Please. Thank you. Thanks. I got a few more raised hands. Kim. Yes. Yes. I can hear me. Yes. My. My husband and I own 80 Great and Road. My name is Kim Rinn and I did submit written testimony as well. This project in support for today's hearing. But we have known Dr.ville Sullivan for 20 years. He raised his family in Brighton as an investor in the community. All of his property is the development's and business endeavors have always bettered the community. I've seen plans for this project and I've attended all the meetings today. And I am full support of the project. I'm also a long resident of Brighton was raised and lived there for 30 years. I feel this development will provide much needed quality housing in the city. Patrick is always in Brighton and I have no doubt this property will be properly maintained and supervised. Thank you. Thank you. Have fun. Hi. I'm Claudette Cardell. I'm in a butter. I've lived in my house for 68 years. Long time person. And I'm not the only one like that in my neighborhood. There's many of us who are long time family people. And we're for the most part pretty friendly. I was glad this project was rejected because of all of its violations of codes. This is a nice neighborhood with some gardens. We have birds. We raise kids. And the people in support of the developer and the owner. Yeah, he's probably a really nice guy. He doesn't live here. He lives in a very remote place that has lots of trees. And he likes to sort of build here. Okay. And what seems like to me, a maniacal pursuit overcome the parking violations, he's now modified his plans to pay over an area of grass, which is adjacent to me. And so this area, this offshoot of this long tandem parking, I think will be, can just be unsafe like someone commented. It will provide confusion. It's disruptive. It's chaotic. How will we shuffle the snow? Where will they put the snow? The pictures make it look really nice. What we have there now is this beautiful old tree. Trees are good. They like clean the air. They provide shade. And shade is very important now. The grass that will be paved over. This is a place where water can absorb into the ground. This is, to me, is a nightmare. Okay. I know there's a need for housing. I understand that. I understand. I understand. I understand. I'll finish up. Okay. I understand. And there are places being built all over. Okay. But we need our air. We need our grass. And this parking thing is just crazy. Please, please believe the co-violations. Please protect the people who have lived here. They're there for a reason. I'm not sure if they're there for a reason. I'm not sure if they're there for a reason. Okay. And I was really happy that it was rejected before. This isn't really bad. Thank you. I have two additional raise here tonight. Please. Please proceed. Please the. Add new information. Okay. Here. Here. Hello. Hello. Can you hear me? Yes, sir. Hi, yes. My name is Peter. I'm at two Academy of World in. I just want to express support for the public. I do think that the brain may have a good need more housing for families. And based upon the plans, I can see that there's going to be no impacts on the parking. As much as we love street parking. But I'm supposed to call that the developer and the developer. Thank you. Jessica, you said you had another raise. Jessica, is there another raise? Sorry, it looks like they're lower. They're here. Okay. Yeah. I'll say thank you. With the applicant, like to just some of those concerns. Any additional comments before we proceed? I'm not sure it's George Marancy. I think the plans and the projects stand for themselves. I understand that one of the previous speakers does have concerns about parking. But as was mentioned during community process, this was the major issue that came up. And my plan sought to address. And I think the parking situation is actually quite manageable. It is only introducing three additional spaces. And there is that shared driveway that is virtually a present condition. Because of the common ownership of the three parcels. So we think it's a good project and that it will serve to make good use of what is currently a vacant lot. We begin trying to preserve as many street trees. I'm sorry, as many site trees as possible and adding two units on another one is done to develop. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Would that may have a motion? I'll make a motion to approve with BPD A designer, Ville. Is there a second? Second. The stand bridge. Yes. Miss Betta-Brazza. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. As we will. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Chair votes. Yes, motion carries. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Can we have a real close retreat? Can you raise your hand if you're on for the Cambridge Street proposal? I'm going to say two reasons. Harry, your will is that you? Are you on for the Cambridge Street proposal? The Re53 Cambridge Street. Okay. I have a question. I have a question. I have a question. Mr. George, could I be heard for a moment? On this matter? On the 3rd, 53rd, Cambridge Street? Yes. I'll explain in the board. Of course, do what it wishes. My name is George Moran. I'm a manager in the business address of 350 West Broadway and Salt Boston. I recognize the name. I have nothing to do with 353 Cambridge Street. But I did text it when this matter was first all. And I have not heard from him. I guess all I'm requesting is a courtesy since he is a client of mine. Even though I'm not a late project, I know sometimes the board will deny without prejudice the matter where the applicant petitioner doesn't appear. I guess what I'm requesting is if nobody in fact appears in the office since we're at the end of the 930 clock hearings rather than I would not prejudice that this matter could be deferred. And I will advise Mr. Dunn of that. I think we're open to either option. So maybe Mr. Stembridge can read it into the record either way. We need to make a motion. So this has been regards to the case of the OA. 1608586. The address of 353 Cambridge Street. Listen to Nancy you were saying. He's just seeking a deferral. So yes, it could be deferred. I'm not involved in the case, but I will I will let the applicant know of the deferral days that is the will of the board. Okay, would that kind of have a motion? No. Would you like me to get a review for the motion? Sure, let's have a review. Um, Tuesday after we're 29th. Okay, Mr. Collins. Most of the time I have to say I'm going to 29th. May I have a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Is it better for us though? Yes. Mr. Lyland? Yes. Ms. Rewell? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Mr. Carrens? Yes. Motion carries. Thank you. No, welcome. We will recess. I believe until 11. You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You Correct An Present. Mr.他 Mr. Mr. Lawrence? Right to the council. We are a six member for it. And if anyone would like to have their case for a draw on the front of this time frame, please let us know now. Yes, Mr. Stembridge, 457 through 469A, West Broadway, South Boston, please. So that would be case B-O-A, 160, 5291, with the address of 457 to 469A, West Broadway. Would you explain the train lines? Great. Thanks, Mr. Stembridge. Madam Chair, I'm Mr. Moore, the 20 Ryan Spitz, Adams and Roryans Business Adress of 168, H3, First Floor, South Boston. We're asking for a short deferral here. The refusal was not adequate. It was actually this is a violation, which were in the process of rectifying. And this will also have to be re-advertised. So at this point, we would like to just request a deferral to allow for a sufficient amount of time to re-advertise with the new violation. Thank you, Gowin. We could do Tuesday, October 29th. Perfect, we'll take it. Okay, would that have a motion? I make a motion to defer to October 29th. May I have a second? Certainly. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Is better browser? Yes. Mr. Ligam? Yes. Is we well? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Yes. Yes, the motion carries. See you then. Are there any further requests for? We'll throw all the referrals in the stock frame. With none? I do see a raised hand one, second. Joe Hamlin, are you looking to defer? Ah. I'm going to just look into the updated tool. Oh, thank you. If anyone else needs to be elevated to a panel, please raise your hand. Thank you, Madam Chair. Madam Adam Sarvaw as well, just go up. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Sorry. Is Mr. Lyons looking for defer? I see another raised hand. The turning Lyons? I know you've requested it earlier. John, do you want you going to move? I am. Yes. Yes. I believe that's on for 1130. Oh, it's 1130. Okay. I'm sorry. We'll turn it back to you, Mr. Stembridge. Thank you, Madam Chair. We will return now to case B.O.A. 162-09-76, with the address of 82 Bucket Hill Street. If the applicant and or their representative's president, would they please explain the case to the board? Yes. Hello. This is Zach and again, 67-0-0 Street Charles Nantman, the private manager of this project as well. So here we're seeking to extend public space into the basement, which will exceed the board or ratio of just five bits. At the same time, we're also looking to convert the permit, but just breeds between marbles. You should use legal check and Glass door as jointly as my vehicle and코's providence. Which is welcome to slide that anybody else should nehme 10 coverage of the emergency bunker network plan this is been set out again by zero. The City of everybody? Yes. Um, just second round done. Okay, will be驚 from the configuration first five to ten起來 as well from missionary task. and flyer the area of this flyer and solicited one letter of opposition, which was forward into the board. We received no other comments with that background. We defer to the judgment of the board. Thank you. Thank you. Pay in. Looks like we have no raised hands at the moment. Thank you. Okay, we got a motion. Man, I'm chatting before a motion of approval. The third second. Mr. Steinberg? Yes. Is that a browser? Yes. Mr. Lano? Mr. Ma'am. Mr. Miro? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Parable to us, motion carries. Thank you. Look. Next, we have two different cases. First, it's case B08, 161, 1971, with the address of 60 Russell Street, along with that we have case B08, 161, 1976, with the address of 58R Russell Street. It's the applicant and the representative's president, but they please points of the board. Yes. Good morning, Madam Chairman, Mr. Board. This is John Barry from the offices. John D. Barry, located at 10 Forbes Road in Sweet 210, Brain Tree Mass, 02186. The architect of record on this particular project is Joy Street Design, located at 121 East Berkeley Street, on the third floor, located in Boston, Mass, 02118. The reason why this is essentially companion cases is the owner here on several lots. The purpose of this proposal is to combine all those lots, renovate the existing structure, and just for context for the board, essentially the owner owns two single family homes that they have for some time now been using as one single family, that is located on 58 in 60 Russell Street. Essentially the purpose of this proposal is to take the five bedroom, three and a half bath existing structure, renovate it, into a four-bedroom, four-bathroom, with an additional separate garage, and on the second floor of that garage would be some living space. On the first floor would be two private shelter parking spaces that measure roughly 19 by 8 feet and six inches. For the Alt 1575330 permit, there are three violations. One is that there's a dimensional rig. This is actually just for members to have context. This is a rendition of the existing structure with the garage that's proposed in the rear of the existing structure. One thing I just want to note is as a joy street design, I think, did a tremendous job on their proposal here. The purpose of really what's going on is interior renovations. There's not a ton that's being done on the exterior to essentially try to hold and respect the current architecture and the aesthetic of the current neighborhood. There is a roof deck that's being proposed, but it's on the rear of the structure. It's rear-facing, and should not be able to be seen from Russell Street with the way that it's designed. There are three violations on the alteration permit. One is there's a front yard pre-existing knock informants. As I'm sure members of this board know, in Charlestown, the idea is to try to maintain some of these structures that have a model that is right on the sidewalk. We are not changing the current footprint of this existing structure, but that was triggered by the proposal to renovate the interior and the roof deck. The roof deck that did trigger a roof structure, a restricted violation, and then ultimately because of the living space in the garage, we are triggering a two or more dwellings on the same lot. One thing I would like to highlight to the board is there's not the normal violations that you see with Charlestown proposal's meaning. There's no FAR violations here. There's no open space violations. Whoever's handling the proposal, I mean the slides, if you could actually go to, I think it's page nine, that's a good rendition of what the proposed site plan would look like. Part of this proposal is to try to, I think it's the next one down. There's a schematic that has colors right there. Part of this design is to ultimately try to create as much green space to try to screen as much of the site with strawberry and trees, with it being a second ERT proposal, the BPDA would have the ability to tell the owners here what to plant and we are 100% on board with committing to that. Moving forward to the ERT proposal for members of the board, there's a lot of similar violations. There's a dimensional regulations violation. So essentially that garage, we're triggering our rear yard setback with this garage. So it's roughly three feet from the back of the lot. The reason for the placement of the garage is to ultimately not create a long driveway that's going to create a bunch of black top and asphalt. So essentially this go place would become widened by the placement of this garage because from the streets, the street, this go place actually looks wider being that there would be sidewalks in a way for you to enter into the garage. The reason for this proposal really in Matthew Wood and his wife, Deborah, have several children looking to renovate the existing structure that they live in and then to have that living space above the garage. Once their kids get older, maybe they want to spend some time up there when they have family that's traveling from Australia, they'll have some private space that they can stay up on the property. So with that, if there's any questions for the board, I believe the architects are on. I defer to the board if there's any questions about the proposal. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Hearing none, they have public testimony. Madam Chair, members of the board, Ciggy Johnson with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This petitioner has completed the ONS community process. Our office hosted in a butters meeting on June 24th, at which a butters posed questions primarily about any changes to setbacks or the proposal. Our office has additionally received five letters of support from the butters. With that background, we defer to the judgment of the board. Thank you. Thank you. And don't see any raised hands at the moment. Okay, with that, we have a motion. One for you, Mr. Chair. Is there a second? The rest of the second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Lailan. Yes. Ms. Wewout. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Sorry. Did I skip someone? Me. Who rides on the road? Mr. Kusar, but that. Ms. Bedouin-Baza. Yes. Chair votes, yes. Motion carries. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board. Have a nice day. Thank you. After case you referred so moved to case B.O.A. 161-9159. If the address of 54 Dorsen Street, the applicant and or their representatives present. Please respond to the board. Good morning, Mr. Secretary. Madam Chair, members of the board, Attorney Cho Hanley, McDermott, Coltty Miller, and Hanley, 28 State Street in Boston. Also with me, I believe he's been elevated is Adam Sarbagh, who is the owner and the opponent for this application. I have, thank you, Madam Ambassador, the presentation up, which I'll go through quickly. But just to give you a little background first, this project site along with a companion case to its right at 56 Dorsen Street. Was before the ZBA on February 27th and was denied without prejudice. We had a very good discussion with the BPDA, certain members who are also here again today, which is helpful and received a recommendation from the BPDA concerned about mainly about the amount of parking and the open space and support, of course, for what. What the ability to this project to deliver a home ownership of family size accommodation. So you'll see here the property site is located in a 2F 5000 zone in North Dorshester, the intersection of the Polish Triangle and McCormick Civic area along Boston Street on Dorsen Street, which you'll see to the right, the building at 56 and building to the left is 52 Dorsen Street. The existing conditions now are, there is a distressed single family structure that is on the nonconforming lot, which I'll get into. And the context of the areas you can see is supportive of the scale and presentation to follow. Next slide, please. So this is a site plan that shows you what we've done since we were here on February 27th. So in case that I mentioned at 56 Dorset Street has been withdrawn and that proposal was to add parking spaces in the green open space that you see on the dog leg right in the back. Again, that has been withdrawn and so that will remain as open space. This proposal is to revitalize this site with a three story six unit condominium home ownership building. In February, we had proposed eight parking spaces because the zoning code requires 1.25 per unit. And that case did not require a variance for parking. The BTDA recommendation and what we heard from certain board members was to reduce the parking and add open space. We've done just that. We now have five parking spaces, which does require a variance from this board. And we have added approximately 20% of open space to the program at the ground plane in addition to another 150 square feet at the ultimate roof for a roof deck accommodation. You can see here that additional open space. I think it's also important to note that we would be looking to further work with the BPDA on permeability of the driveway and the parking so that it can be multi purpose and accomplish the balance that is necessary here. Next slide, please. So these are the floor plans that show you the home ownership program. There are, as I said, six units, two units per floor. The first floor are two bedroom two bath. They're two units. And then on the upper levels, they are all there are four three bedrooms with two bath. All of the units are in excess of 1200 square feet, which is really the sweet spot for something that's not being delivered in the midst of the housing crisis. The family sized home ownership that is not so big that it's cost prohibitive from a market standpoint, but big enough also that it will accommodate growing families and folks who work from home and with a reasonable parking configuration that we know the data shows for those larger home ownership units, but not over parked. So, I think that's something I'll say about this new parking configuration, and you'll see this in the updated BPDA recommendation. We are now compliant with the T.D.'s maximum, mandatory maximum number of spaces at five. And of course, we now require the variance for the more reasonable allotment. Next slide, please. So, I talked to you about the 20% of open space in the ground floor in addition to that. And this was responsive to the comments that we heard in the BPDA recommendation. We have added a roof deck on the ultimate roof and put it into place where it has no visible impact. Next slide, please. So, I talked to you about the height a little bit. The allowable height here is two and a half stories and 35 feet. We meet that where 35 feet, but we're obviously three stories, which you'll see. And we're using a man's art, which helps to mitigate that impact and was something that was extensively reviewed through the community outreach process and with the BPDA. Next slide, please. And you can see this in context as we run on the side elevation. And you can see circulation underneath in the rear side. And if you go further down, you can see this from from the opposite side. So, in summary, next slide, BPDA recommendations. We were asked to maintain the MFR use, which we have complied. Again, this is a 2F 5000 zone. The context of the area includes numerous other multi-family uses, which the BPDA recommendation also mentions. We reduced the parking. That was something that we heard from that member, that are baraza as well as from the BPDA. So, again, we're going from eight to five, complying with BPDs maximum, but now requiring other grants of a variance from this board. We increased the open space, that 947 square feet amounts to 20%. Approximately, and that doesn't include the additional 150 square feet of roof deck space that we added. And we had continued neighborhood support. So, like you'll see in your file, went back to the neighborhood group in Cormac Civic. They voted unanimously zero opposition. Every elected official for the local delegation, local areas in support, all of our butters, zero opposition whatsoever. And so, we're really trying to strike a balance. I know that this board likes to see open space. I know that the BPDA is not necessarily encouraging more parking. So, what we're trying to do is strike that balance to listen to the input to come back with this accommodation, but also not lose track of how important it is to create family size housing. And we do know, based on the data, that when you do have homeownership in these neighborhoods, and you have larger size units, it is a fact that a little more parking, not a lot, but a little more parking is necessary. And that's the balance that I think we've achieved in what you'll hear from people in the neighborhood who are most important constituents, of course. Next slide, please. So, here are the things that we heard once again for that unanimous support. Again, is that importance of the homeownership units versus the abundance of rentals, the stability of the housing stock and their size. The roof deck, sir, the roof deck is intentional. We were neighbors did not want to see him at the rear of the building at the front, excuse me. We also have agreed to provision of the master deed that these reduced number of parking would be for residents only and not rented off site. And that again allows us to multi-purpose them with pervious surfaces to further meet the concerns that we heard. We placed the HVAC condenser in the roof. And of course, I had outlined to you the continued community support. Next slide, you can see that from the McCormick Civic Association. And in conclusion, I would say I would just would like to thank this board for having us back again. I do think we've worked very hard to address the things that we can. And again, keeping our eye on the prize of being able to deliver homeownership in a neighborhood that enthusiastically supports this balanced approach. And we also look forward to should we have the pleasure to further working with the BPDA through its design review process to address any additional issues as part of that process. So, thank you, Madam Chair and members of the board for allowing me to present and that concludes our presentation. Thank you. Is Mr. Hampton still with us from BPDA? I mean, planning department. I am Madam Chair. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Jeff Hampton, City of Austin Planning Department. We do appreciate the proponent making the changes that we had recommended in our previous appeal from a few months ago. But as you can see in our recommendation, we are still on the record for denying with our prejudice. The payment is still an issue for us. And even the cantilever part of the rear building is still low. We're hoping that it can be scaled back a little bit more, but we are appreciative of the changes that have been made with the increase in open space. But the arcing area, the paved area is still a concern of us as well as that rear yard. Thank you. Questions from the board? I'm curious to hear from the applicant as to whether if you were to undergo Boston Planning Department design review and manage to massage a little bit the massing of the building to avoid a little bit of that extended cantilever, would you still be open to the reduction of square footage? You are muted, sir. Mr. Hampton. Okay, sorry, Madam Chair. Thanks for that comment. Member Betar Baraza. Yeah, yeah, of course. And I think the thing that what's different about this case is we now require a parking variant. So if we were to be approved, obviously, that allows us to continue to massage this. It's been suggested through the BPDA process, not just the massing in the rear, which we would be working on, but also how the surface area in the parking area. We would not be able to do that for because of course we were compliant with the zoning code parking. So I think that's a really good suggestion. And it's something that my client would be open to. I'm happy because Bob Domingo from BPD also spoke about removing that end parking space. But I think you already went from 8 to 5 and now we're asking you to go to 4 and I think it just it just. I think it's a really good suggestion. I think it's a really good suggestion. I think it's a really good suggestion. I think it's a really good suggestion. I think it's a really good suggestion. I think it's a really good suggestion. I think it's a really good suggestion. I think it's a really good suggestion. I think it's a really good suggestion. I think it's a really good suggestion. I think if safety is a concern, it still needs to undergo some design iterations. So I just wanted to hear from you if your applicant is open to it. Yeah, I think that's a good suggestion. Thank you. And if the zoning was approved as it is, we could obviously do that because it would only result in less relief, not bore. Right. So the project would have, you know, would be reduced a little bit. So that's completely workable and something that I appreciate that suggestion. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Hearing none, can I have public testimony? Madam Chair, members of the board, current, you went with the mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. At this time, mayor's Office could defer to the judgment of this board. Previously, this went through a lengthy community process where throughout the applicant received strong support from the butters as well. Civic Association, you heard after a reason you were told to change the black configuration. It went back to the McCormick Civic Association who unanimously uploaded to support this proposal. We're unaware of any concerns from the community and with that, we'd like to defer to the board. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Lee and Remiss from Council for the Stale's Office. Offset with the unwritten support proposal. Thank you. Mr. Murphy. I'm Murphy D'Alfors. Hello and good morning. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board, Kevin O'Sullivan from Councilor Aaron Murphy's Office for the Claw Monarchite efforts. The unanimous support of the McCormick Civic Association and the ongoing efforts to facilitate approval working towards approval of this project. House Norma, if you would like to stand with the community, the proponents in the district councilor for support and approval. Thank you very much for your time and consideration. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning. I'm members of the board. If this is simply judges from the House of居, the office and we would like to go in the chair and support your project as well. Thank you. Good morning, Madam O'Sullivan. So the war on a Caldere from Councilor Allarge, Henry Santana. The Councilor would like to go in great great support. Thank you. Thank you. All right. Just see this hand to still raise Matt. Are you looking to get testimony here? Any other raised standards just come? I don't see Matt, but it looks like you are muted, Matt. Are you looking to get testimony? Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I would like to thank the members of the Senate committee, unanimous support of this project. Cornerstone continues to work well with projects that they do in the neighborhood, particularly with the abutters. And we are in full support of this project, as Ben mentioned, several times. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks. Thank you. Would that be a motion? Madam Chair, I would like to put forward a motion given that the project has full councilor support, full kind of civic association support and no resident opposition. I would like to put forward a motion of approval with a proviso that the project undergoes boss planning design review. Paying special attention to the amount of parking and the site planning layout of the parking. The other proviso is to provide permissible surface treatment on the driveway. And the last proviso would be to work with the boss in planning in regards to the overall massing of the building. To allow for better kind of mobility of automobiles, but also to enhance kind of safety for the building residents, you know, in relation to the cars. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Stonebridge? Yes. Mr. Berraza? Yes. Mr. Lange? Yes. Mr. Lange? Yes. The balance? Yes. Yes, the motion carries. Thank you very much. Next, we have case 308, 159, 5669, the address of 22 Mitchell Street, if the applicant and or the applicant is in the presence of the president, please explain the case to the board. Yes. Good morning, Madam Chair and members of the board. My name is George Marancy. I am attorney with the business address 350 West Broadway and South Boston. Madam Chair and members, I represent John Rene and Jim Flanagan, the owners of the property located at 22 Mitchell Street in South Boston. The permit application proposes to change the legal occupancy of the building from a one family to a two family dwelling, by adding a garden level unit, which is a full walk out in the rear, completely renovated a structure of the building and to add a rear deck. The building is operating in the upper units use as well as a rear, egress, airway. All work will remain within the existing building footprint, which is not being expanded. The interior scope of work besides upgrades to all systems and finishes consists of a new kitchen and bathroom floor the garden level unit. As the planning departments recommendation to the board notes 22 Mitchell Street is located in a residential neighborhood where existing buildings included mix of two and three story dwellings as well as newer multi family buildings that go up to four stories and hire on nearby call and Avenue. The property is located within the area of the accrued plan, South Boston, Dorchester Avenue, the goals of which are summarized in the planning recommendation. As such, the zoning here has not yet been updated from its original base code zoning of M1, which is restricted manufacturing as such the proposed residential use in an entirely residential neighborhood is forbidden and required. The second part of the work is the housing and housing and housing and the housing and housing and the housing and housing and the housing and housing and the housing and housing and the housing and housing and the housing and housing and the housing and housing and the housing and housing and the housing and housing and the housing and housing and the housing and housing and the housing and housing and the housing and housing and the housing and housing and the housing and housing and the housing and housing and the housing and housing and the housing and housing and the housing and housing and the housing and housing and the housing and housing and the housing and housing and the housing and housing and the housing and housing and the housing and housing and the housing and housing and housing and the housing and housing and the housing and housing and housing and the housing and housing and housing and the housing and housing and the housing and housing and housing and housing and the housing and housing and housing and housing and housing and the housing and housing and housing and housing and housing and housing and housing and housing and housing and housing and housing and housing and housing and housing and housing and And this misses unit but at the same time an additional 224 square feet of open space is being created for unit 2 by the new rear deck, leading almost the same amount of yard area to the rear of the new staircase in the existing garage for unit 1. With that, Madam Chair, I'll pause and take any questions the members may have. Thank you, Ms. Marancy. Any questions from the board? Hearing none, can I have further testimony? Madam Chair, members of the board, so you answer with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. This petitioner has completed the ONS community process. Our office hosted in a butters meeting on the 16th of May at which no concerns were raised. The petitioner has additionally appeared at the Andrew Square Civic Association, which is in support of the proposal. With that background, we defer to the judgment of the board. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I have no additional raise hands at the moment. This is Councillor Fletzell first. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board, Mr. Secretary. Councillor Flemme would like to go on record and support of this project. Now there was a positive community engagement as well as support from the Andrew Square Civic Association. I would like to encourage that the proponent continue to work closely with the neighborhood doing the construction fees. This is all we have. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you. Any other raise hands? Okay, without any other motion. I'll put forward in my rationale to prove all. Second. Thank you. Just that wish? Yes. Senator Brasa? Mr. Lengham? Yes. Mr. Miegel? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Chair, it's just the motion carries. As we passed the 1130 hour, at this time we'll ask if there are any requests for withdrawals or the first from the 1130 month? Madam Chair, members of the board, it's Mike Ross for 226 Magnolia Street. The VFD case, BOA, 1526691, with the address of 226 Magnolia Street. Thank you. Mr. Smith? I'll go ahead and explain. Mr. Ross? Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Madam Chair, members of the board, given the six member construction of the board, we would respectfully request in the administrative deferrals of the next set of member board meeting. Do you have a date? Yes, we can do October 8th or October 29th. That's your list? October 8th. Okay, October 8th. It is. May I have a motion? I make a motion to defer to October 8th. Sorry. Second. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Ms. Bavroso? Yes. Mr. Lengen? Yes. Mr. Collin's? Yes. Yes. Mr. Carrey's here then. Mr. Lengen? Mr. Lengen? Yes. Mr. Collin's? Yes. Mr. Collin's? Yes. Mr. Collin's? Yes. Mr. Collin's? Yes. Yes. Yes. Motion carries. See you then. Yes. Mr. Collin's? Yes. Yes. Yes. Motion carries. Madam Chair, members of the board. Dr. Lyons here on body-42 Temple Street. Okay, let's. Mr. Stembridge? No doubt would be 4K's Beoway. 1-5-1-5-203 with the address of 3022 Temple Street. Go ahead and explain it. It's up to your lines. Thank you. We're requesting a deferral to early November. The reason being we're still in the process of meeting with two neighborhood associations, one lower mills and the other river street. My most communication with river street, I was informed that they're not meeting again until October 10th. So on respect for this schedule, we just like to push this off until November, we can meet with them all last time. We'll probably meet with lower mills in September for the final time as well. We have had two of our bothers meet. We've had two presentations to river on one to lower mills and more. Thank you. Mr. Caroline. When is November 19th, on November 26th? The 19th, please. Would that be able to motion? Motion to define in November 19th. Second. Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Berprasa. Yes. Mr. Ligam. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Carly. Yes. Mr. Carly. Yes. Motion carries. See you then. Thank you. Hi. My fellow residents, we're going to go to the river. It's good enough for the roads. We do have some additional ways to hands here. A. Mr. Vance. This one, we should. Are you here for the phone? Here for the next case. Okay. Perfect. So with that, we'll return to the last case for 11 o'clock, which is case B.O.A. 159-022 with the address of 131 Devon Street. If the applicant is in the address of the person, please sign to the board. Hi, yes. Good morning, Madam Chair and members of the board. I am out as far as I am the architect on this project. I actually live right on the Vance Street myself just two blocks away at 79 Devon Street. And I'm the meeting with me today are my elite developments, who's the chief operating officer of the project. Same 7. Well, I'll see. And there is probably one of those of you might have really some point in it at the subject properly. And also an employee of the company. The subject properly, one particular of the Vance Street is currently being built with a three story, three family building. So you picture the project that what we're posting consists of building an apartment in the basement. They're building a lot of these throughout the city on bus and through the EU program. And the most project needs all of the requirements of the 80 youth program for basic apartment. The nice thing about 80 youth program is that you don't have to work with the CBA or committee classes. However, because this property is not owned by the party, we are required to build through the CBA. If I were to please produce six of the plans. So the apartment with the good size is going to be around 100 square feet. They will consist of three platforms to move that. The nice thing about these particular property is that because of the grading, the grading slopes up on this sidewalk. The nice thing is that essentially this time walk is at the same level as the basement apartment. So what we're proposing here, what you can on the left side is what the Vance Street is. And what we're proposing is essentially a flat sidewalk that takes you directly into the common area of the apartment. And essentially creating a walk out basement that brings in natural light to your apartment. If you can please put a page in the background. So here's a perspective of what the common area is not looking at these represents the existing comments and themes in the apartment. And you can see the lower doors in the back that is in the open out into the walk out at you and then into the Vance Street. If we could please call it a next page. So here on the left side, you can see an excellent man at some natural view as coming through that proposed basement apartment. The Vance Street will be on the bottom left and you can see on the left side of the left image the walkway that we're proposing into the apartment. Now, the other reason we have to look for the ZBA and this is something that I learned on this project is that that is the only calculations or a project based on the United Federal Reserve. So the subject also does not have any arguing the tenants of the subject properly not to the monobond street use the currently renting to parking spaces from the adjacent they can also. So, as such, currently the separate one known as one thirty three the bounce street is currently accounted for in the one thirty one the bond street zoning calculations. And so part of this this mission is to revise as you revise this and this is the reason for some of the zoning violations that were flagged by the same way. I should know that the adjacent big and parcel of one thirty three the bond street was also on a project send itself to see we are proposing to build a new building there that's a separate submission and essentially in that submission what was opposed to is through our king in the rear of the one that the last street which again, there's going to be no parking within one of the last street. So this will be an improvement in the meantime with this project this kind of mission parking situation will not change with the health of Jeremy Embry the community is something else that's accessible about our meeting and squalas and I call local residents association meeting. Thank you. Thank you questions from the board. I have one small question. Are these all going to be written to apartments? Yes, sir. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? What's the total amount of units or one thirty one and what what's going to be the total amount of units potentially at one thirty three? So one thirty one the bond street is going to be a three family and with the delivery, it'll be three units including the basement. No, so it's currently a family it's going to be a four unit with the expense. Okay. And then to answer the second half of your question what were proposed making the adjacent parcel of one thirty three the bond street is seven units and we still have not gone through the convenient process of that one. And remind me again the one thirty one how many species was allocated for one thirty one on one thirty three property. There's two. The spaces are currently being rented at one thirty three and that's not very change. I don't have any other questions. Any other questions from the board? Very readily. Public testimony? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor Newman with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This time the mayor is off-scripted to further to the judgment of this board passing back our facial community process, own as hosts in a butters meeting on May 30th. It was slightly attended. There were no concerns raised. I know comments and support are an opposition. The applicant then went on to be with the local civic association which they secured their support. That will first the board this time. Thank you. Okay, I see you raised a mic. Hi, my name is Michael. My name is Michael Koso from Brought to Right Code Director three two zero eight. We'll have a new be hosted meeting with the Devon Normandy runs with residence association where the applicant presented. People raised concern. We had their questions raised regarding the height of the basement unit. The accessibility and the egress. Folks felt so we do afford to reach out and interact with their proposal for 133 Devon Street. Thank you very much. So they're in support. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks. Thank you. First, Brian. First, Brian. Brian, what else office? We are in support of this process. They have worked well with the community and have this part of the project right. And so we support it. Thank you. Thanks for having no additional raiseings at the moment. Well, that we have motion. Madam chair, I'd like to put forward a motion of approval with a proviso that the two parking spaces be eliminated to allow for. Preservation of open space. Is there a second? That can. This was separate. Yeah. Mr. Berberazel. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. This way well. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Motion carries. Thank you. That move on to the discussion schedule for 1130. Of course, we have Kate. The away 157. 6 9. Step in eight. The address of 164. Call on the admin. The other one. Okay. Thank you. Mr. Good morning. Madam chair. Members of the board. My name is George Laurence. I'm an attorney for the business address 350 west. Far away in South Boston. I represent Adam Burns, the owner of this property. This is an application to erect a new four story. Four unit building at 164 old colony. Have any of themselves. Boston. In Johnson project architect is with us today and will speak on the plans in a moment. By way of background of the reason this matter was deferred was to allow. Or modifications to the plans to address. Both the issues raised in the planning department's recommendation to the board. As well as to cure cited building code violations. When I requested a deferral in this matter in June. I abandoned the building code release at that time and no building properly was being sought. With respect to the planning recommendation. The ISD plans in Zambler. I actually want to use the current plans until just this morning. As a result of planning. Artment has not had an opportunity to update its recommendation. But I have an extra planning. Arment since May on this matter and advise them that in addition to remedying. Building code violations. Their revised plans. We reflect that the building applies with the requirements of the postural flood resilience overlay district. With the growing floor now elevated two feet above base flood elevation. And that the main entry for now swings inward as is allowed for the building codes since the building's occupancy is less than 50%. Of course, as I said the BPA is not considered planning. It's not an opportunity to update its recommendation. With respect to zoning. In like the Mitchell Street matter that the board considered a few minutes ago. This site is also within an M1 restricted manufacturing zone. We're in place in 1964. As well as within the area of planned southbound. The Rochester Avenue. As such really none of the using dimensional requirements here are reflective of contemporary urban residents. The area of urban residential zoning, which is why virtually every possible violation has been cited in the zoning or a Q's a letter. More relevant is that under the approved plan site is in a 65 60 foot bonus. I densities own, but what is being proposed is a four story 40 foot tall building containing as I said for the long. The development goes as fully compliant with plans of Boston, Rochester Avenue. There would be a two foot minimum setback on the old colony Avenue side of the site. We're allowed for future sidewalk lining. Similar to the city of Boston's complete streets guidelines. Architect in the onset as it's pointed at the moment worked on the recently approved building located directly across your seat street from the site. A local sequiner, which was likewise set back to feed on all colony Avenue during the design review phase. I think at this point it would be beneficial to ask Kim Johnson to take the board briefly through the plans. And then we'll ask for any no questions from the board. Kim. I saw Tim in the in the attendees section. I don't believe he had been elevated at that time. He does have his hand raises in the attendees section. Okay. Hello, this time it looks like you've been elevated. Yes, we can hear you. Thank you, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Tim Johnson, the project architect. Thank you, George. And this is a view showing looking northeast corner of old colony. Next slide, please. This is a view from your street looking toward old colony. As George mentioned, the next slide, please. We do have a basement area of shown on the foundation plan with the elevator pit. We're living area in the basement area. Next slide, please. This is the ground floor plan. First floor is elevated two feet above flood plain elevation. Or the seafront. Brought requirements. We have a handicap accessible entry into the building to a FOIA, which. Access is a five-stop elevator. All units are handicap adaptable group one dwelling units. All these units are two bedroom two bath units. Each within a small outdoor area to at least sit outside with a couple chairs and next slide, please. So the next several floors are the same. We have the elevator. FOIA in each unit. Two means of two stairwells since it is a four-story building. You see we have the next stairwell. Can you reach unit? Next slide, please. Very floor is the same. Next slide, please. As is the fourth. Now the roof, we will have access to the roof for future solar panels and also mechanical equipment to VAO. We have the bulkhead with roof door. Next slide, please. Here is our building section showing the sidewalk elevation at 17 feet. We have our flood base elevation at 18 and then we provide a free board of two feet together to the design flood elevation of 20 feet. Unit one elevation is at 20 feet and this conforms to our 25A of the seafront. You can see the overall building height from the sidewalk is 40 feet to the roof plate. Next slide, please. An elevation showing our basement, again, no living in the basement and all the floor to floors. First floor at 20 feet, a two foot free board about the flood base elevation. Next slide, please. Next slide, please. This shows you one of the staircases which does take us to the roof. Next slide. And now, finally, we have the elevations. We have an old colony elevation. We'll be using brick at the first floor, full brick veneer and five resonant products and different colors on the upper floors. Next slide, please. You can see we have this shows off your street in June. It does have an outdoor space which is important today. Next slide, please. North elevation, next slide, final elevation showing the door to the basement on the right, the trash from the center. Thank you. Thank you, Tim. A matter of fact, before turning it back over to the board, I just want to point out for the record that C-Fried compliance is actually not required here. This is not an article 80 project, but it was noted in the BVDA's recommendation back in May. So Tim did amend the plans to comply with C-Fried, even though, again, it's not applicable. Thank you. Questions from the board? Hearing none, can I have public testimony? Madam Chair, members of the board, honored in with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This time, the Mayor's Office referred to the judgment that's boarded some bad information to the community process, and the buttons, meaning the solicit on December 4, 2023, in regards to 164-all colony. The proponent then went on to present before the Andrew Square Neighborhood Association on January 22, 2024. The Civic Association voted to oppose the proposal. Our office so far has received 30 letters of opposition and one letter in support. A concerns raised by the community were in regards to the lack of parking. When Director Baudier-Skling will be a blockage of natural sunlight, proximity to neighboring buildings, the height of the building, as well as the density, and also concerned regarding the trash management, which I think the applicant talks about having a centralized location within the building. That information will defer to the board at this time. Thank you. Am I? Good afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the board, Mr. Secretary, this is Mr. Lissler from the Councilor's Office. Councilor Flynn, would like to go on record in opposition again on Sunday. I took the board this morning, all I can say is that I'll cover any buildings. The community process has been consistently heard concerns from neighbors and our brothers, as well as the Andrew Square Civic Association on the impacts of this current single family, with two levels, three bedrooms going to four units and four levels. Too much density for this lot size, exacerbating the existing parking prices in South Boston, the lots of natural light and open space, and other negative impacts to quality of life. Councilor Flynn respectfully ask the board to take these concerns from the neighbors and civic groups seriously. Thank you very much. Thank you. Michelle Wack? Michelle Wack? I'm sorry. Hi. Can you hear me? Yes, ma'am. So my name is Michelle Wack. I live at 11 Earl Street and I'm a director of butter to this property, and I want to go on record as being in support of it. Of the plan that they put forward today, I've worked with the builders on some of my concerns, and I feel like they have heard them. So I'm now in support of a project. Thank you. Thank you. We have no distraction. We have no additional basements at the moment. Any questions or reward? Madam, Madam Chair, I have a question. Well, I don't have the copy in front of me, but the work comments from the Disabilities Commission only access to unit 1 appears to be by stairs. Please provide an accessible means to access this ground for a unit, whether it be by ramp or elevated. Jim, can you address that please? Yes, the plans do show an elevator door at the entry foyer. It would travel two feet for the first stop at unit 1. So unit 1 would be accessible by 21CMR. Thank you, Jim. Madam Chair, members of the board, that became an issue only after voluntary compliance, which was suggested by the BBA with space flood elevation. So that became a necessary accommodation with respect to opposition. It's not worthy that as Mr. Connor referenced the butter's meeting was held in September. Since that time, my client worked earnestly with directed buttons to the project, one of whom just spoke. And also, it's worth pointing out that the very first version of these plans were for a five-story building with parking at grade and a roof deck, which both those issues, both the five-story height in the initially opposed roof deck contributed to some degree of community opposition. We are currently at a four-story building, no parking, which also leads to some opposition based on like parking, but this site is within easy walking distance of two redline rapid transit stations. And as I said, it is fully compliant with plans, help us into a chest or avenue, this section of locality avenue has a number of new or early community developments, certainly three of which I have done within about 500 feet of this site that are all forward. So we think it's in a close location for a four-story for a unit building. Thank you. Other questions from the board? May I have a motion? I think I must not prove what the PPD and design will be. In 30 seconds? That can. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Berprasa. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Ms. Mueville. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Chair votes, yes, the motion carries. Thank you. Thank you, Madame. We move on to the last case scheduled for 1130, which is case real, 8153 55266, with the address of 94 to 96 blowing street. It's the applicant to enter their representative's presence. That please explain the case through the board. Yes, Mr. Secretary, Madam Chair, members of the board of Attorney Ryan Spitz, Adams and Marantee Business Adder. The address of 168th Street, First floor, South Boston. Here on behalf of my client, who is the owner of Sebastian Miggle, this is a proposal seeking to change the occupancy from a two-family dwelling to a three-family dwelling by maintaining the footprint of the building and adding a dorm on the left-hand side of the building. The proposal is located within a 1,6,000 sub-district. Therefore, the existing building is a two-family which creates three zoning violations, one for use, an extension of that non-conforming use and a change in that non-conforming use. Unit 1 will continue to be located on the first floor. Unit 2 will be on the second floor. No work internally is going to be done on those two units. Unit 3 will be located on the third floor, which will be a new one-bedroom. We have additional violations for the following. Floor area ratio violation. Proposal calls for a .59 and a .5 is what is compliant in this sub-district. We do have a height violation. The building is compliant with fee, but has been cited for stories as two and a half stories is compliant and the proposal calls for three stories considering that left-hand side, doing what it's being added. We do have a side yard violation. Again, this is a pre-existing violation that's deforeprinted to the building as the knotted in which is resulted on the left-hand side that it's full fee-sourced. We do have a rear yard violation. Proposal calls for a setback of 32 feet 8 inches and 40 feet as well as compliant. The violation again is an existing non-conformity as the deck and the rear is being replaced with new decks for second means of egress. We have an open space violation. The requirement in this sub-district is 1800 square feet per unit which will require just about the entirety of this lot size. However, possible is very close proximity to two major green spaces in Hyde Park, Montini Memorial Shell Park and Moynihan Recreation Park area, which helps mitigate the lack of the open space for such a high requirement in this sub-district. Lastly, we do have a violation for insufficient parking. Proposal provides three spaces in the code requires two spaces per unit. However, the ratio of one space per unit is aligned with the transportation departments parking ratios for this neighborhood. At this time, I'm going to pass it over to the board for any questions. Thank you. Questions from the board? Hearing none, can I put the testimony? Hello, Madam Chair. Accessfully Graham from the Office of Neighborhood Services. Just a quick second here. Oh, and that's hosted in a butter's meeting for the applicant on March 6th of 2024. There were some concerns raised about parking during this meeting. They also met with the West Fairmont neighborhood association on May 20th of 2024 with no opposition or concerns raised during that meeting. At this time, our office would like to defer to the chairwoman's judgment. Thank you. Thank you. And just checking it looks like we have no raise hands at the moment. That may have a motion. Motion. Second. Second. Second. Please. No. A bridge. Yes. Ms. Barrazo? Yes. Mr. A. Mr. A. Yes. The motion carries. Thank you. With that, it looks like we are in a break till, one. See you.