 you you Yes I am especially happy and I will live my life this day for my family I thank you so much for zoning board of appeal hearing for April 25th, 2023 is now in session. This hearing is being conducted in accordance with the applicable provisions of the open meeting law, including the updated provisions enacted by the legislature last year. The new law allows the board to continue its practice of voting virtual hearings until March 2025. This hearing of the board is being held remotely via the Zoom webinar event platform. This hearing is also being live-streamed. In order to ensure this hearing with the board is open to the public, members of the public may access this hearing through telephone and video conferencing. This information is the information for connecting to this hearing is listed on today's hearing agenda, which is posted on the public notices page of the city's website, Boston.gov. Members of the public will enter the virtual hearing as attendees, which means you will not see yourself on the screen and you will be muted throughout unless administratively unmuted when asked to comment. Board members, applicants and their attorneys, or representatives will participate in the hearing as panelists, and they will appear alongside the presentation materials when speaking. Panelists are strongly encouraged to keep video on while presenting to the board. As with our in-person meetings, comments in support will be followed by comments in opposition. The order of comments is as follows. Elected officials, representatives of elected officials, and members of the public. The chair may limit the number of people called upon to offer comment and the time for commenting as time constraints require. For that reason, the board prefers to hear from members of the public who are most impacted by a project. That is those individuals who live closest to the project. If you wish to comment on an appeal, please click the raise hand button along the bottom of your screen in the Zoom webinar platform. Click it again and your hand should go down. When the host sees your hand, you will receive a request to unmute yourself. So yes, and you should be able to talk. If you are connected to the hearing by telephone, please press star 9 to raise and lower your hand. You must press star 6 to unmute yourself after you receive the request from the host. Those called upon to comment will be asked to state their name and address first and then provide their comments. In the interest of time and to ensure that you have enough time to do so, please raise your hand as soon as Mr. Stembridge needs the address into the record. Do not raise your hand before the relevant address is called or the meeting host will not know to call on you at the appropriate time. These instructions will be repeated throughout the hearing. All right. Mr. Collins. Yes. Ms. Pannato. You're? Mr. Aiken. Good morning, Madam Chair. I'm here. Good morning, Mr. Stembridge. Good morning, Madam Chair. Good morning. Good morning, Mr. Shepard. Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the Board, President. Good morning, Mr. Valencia. Good morning, Madam Chair. I'm present. Oh, so thank you, Mr. Stembridge. Thank you, Madam Chair. Good morning, Madam Chair. First, item 1, the agenda is the approval of the hearing. We have a report from March 14, 2021-2023, Tribal set. All good. May I have a motion? Make a motion to approve. May I have a second? Circuit. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Pannato. Yes, Mr. Aiken. Yes. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Shepard. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Here are also those yes, motion carries. Next week, on the agenda, we have the extensions 930, first two being companion cases, first being B-O-A-1-805-934 with the address of cell placers, 3-cell placers, and the second being case B-O-A-805-933 at the same address of 3-cell placers. This is the fourth request for an extension, which is due to the expire of April 27th of this year. It approved the new celebration date of April 27th, 2024. Mr. Fervor? Good morning, Madam Chairwoman. Members of the Board, William Fervor, on behalf of Rochelle Wango, trustee of 3-celling place. This is a three-unit family building, the not-end that's been in the family for three generations. Since we have seen you last, we have submitted all revised plans to ISD. In turn, we have also obtained all additional requested information and city department approvals with one exception. And that's BPDAs review and approval. Plans were submitted to them in March. We're still waiting for the review and approval so that we can resubmit to ISD. So we're close to the finish line and hopefully we'll receive an extension so we can finish that. I'd like to thank you. Any questions from the Board? May I have a motion? I'd like to make a motion to grant an extension to April 27th, 2024. May I have a second? Second? Mr. Collins? Yes. Mr. Canado? Yes. Mr. Aiken? I guess I do. Sorry, we dropped the head to the vote pretty quickly. I didn't really have the understanding of why it's the fourth request. I didn't feel like the point had the chance to get that in. But you can continue on the... I think all of this is... I was BPD has not reviewed. That was the reason. Is that your question? For being the fourth extension? Fourth, I don't know. If you're trying to stop the... Do you want to stop asking questions? I guess I'd just like to hear that quickly. I didn't feel that we had enough. I did have the opportunity to hear why it's the fourth extension. Mr. Fuello? Yes, just briefly. Initial extensions primarily would do to COVID issues and resulted both in a change of family members involved in the plans and the change of the plans. So we went through that process at least on two occasions. Resulting in these various delays. And as mentioned, we are now at the point where our last step is to receive the BPD approval and then obtain our permit. Okay, thank you. I can continue. I can... I'll vote yes. Thank you. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Shepard? Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. There are also votes yes, motion carries. Thank you very much. Next we have to be VIA1016543. The address being sent to Utah Street. This is the second request for extension to expire May 2 of this year. If approved, the new expiration date will be May 8, 2024. Good morning, Madam Chairman. For the board, Attorney Lawrence, Katina, representing the owner of the property. Might have a business address of 245 Sumner Street in East Boston. We're requesting a further one year extension. The original extension was based on COVID and then the next extension that we're requesting relief for was there was a death in the family and some family illnesses going on with this issue. We're hoping to have all of the plants in Minotaur Iostee within this year to change from a two family to a three family. Thank you. Any questions from the ward? May I have a motion? Motion to approve extension to May 8, 2024. May I have a second? Thank you. Mr. Collins? Yes. Mr. Panado? Yes. Mr. Aiken? Yes. Mr. Stambridge? Yes. Mr. Shepard? Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. There are also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you very much. Next, we have case BOA 101 9227. The address being 18 card street. This is the first request for extension. Would you all aspire on May 21, this year? If approved the new expiration date will be May 21, 2024. And it's not the applicant who has been represented. Yes, hello Madam Chair, members of the board. Mary Kate Campbell with Reguente Scano. The owner of 18 cottage has just run into some delis and financing as well as designer view. Therefore, we are requesting the one-year extension. Thank you. Any questions from the board? May I have a motion? What? I'm sorry. Yes, strictly. What is the status of the design review? When's that expected to be complete? The owner is prepared to move forward. I think in about the next four to five months. So. Any thank you? Any other questions from the board? May I have a motion? I'll make a motion to put an extension to May 21, 2024. May I have a second? Sorry, can I say something? Mr. Collins. Yes. Ms. Conato. Yes. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Schacher. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Air also looks yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Next we have case of the 08-113-1510. The ad is being 35 pushing out. This is the first request for extension, which will expire on May 7 of this year. It will approve the new expiration date will be made on May 7, 2024. Mr. Gamy. Good morning, Madam Chair. I'm here, Gamy. I'm 35 pushing out. I'm homeowner. I'll do that for one year of extension. You do financial applications and let those things all go. So now we're just looking to finalize the structural plan and hopefully start the construction as far. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Yes. Mr. Schacher. May I have a motion? I'll make a motion. Please stand to May 7, 2024. May I have a second? Thank you. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Canado. Yes. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Schacher. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Chair also wants to ask motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Next we have the B.O.A. 932-844. The annual theme 192 Gladstone Street. This is the second request for extension. Do you expire on April 30th of this year? If approved, the new aspiration date will be April 30th, 2024. Mr. Clifford. Yes. Hi. Good morning. Yeah. We just wonder if we could extend it for another year, just, you know, for obviously in circumstances. We need to extend. We did have a developer and he backed out, unfortunately. So do you feel you can find any? We have, yeah, we've a couple of other, but, you know, other developers very interested in our property. But unfortunately, it's going to expire and we just needed to get an extension. Any questions from the board? What's the project? Oh, we have a, it was basically on as a two family. And we are planning on, you know, like a five-year-old. This is the first extension. This is our second one. The first one was due to COVID and, you know, interesting circumstances. Any other questions from the board? May I have a motion? Motion to grant extension, April 30th, 2024. May I have a second? That good. Thank you, Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Canado. Yes. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Schepard. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Chair, also votes yes. Motion carries. Thank you very much. Good luck. Thanks a lot. Last, under nine, third extension. Paces case B.O.A. 113, 0362, with the address of the challenge. This is the first request for extension. Which is due to expire on June 27th of this year. Proof of the new registration date will be June 22nd of 2020. Mr. Designo or anyone? Yes. Great. Good morning, Madam Chair and members of the board. My name is Joe Designo. I'm honored tonight. I'm in string. I'm seeking an extension to order B.O.A. case. We are in the process of moving forward with the demo permit. We can then move forward to the EGA for design reveal and continue to move forward the project. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Yes, you said you're moving forward into design review after you do the demo. I will remove the demo permit in hand before the project. That's the review of the demo. Okay, thanks. Any other questions from the board? May I have a motion? Madam Chair, I make a motion to approve extension to June 22nd, 2024. And the second. Second. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Panato. Yes. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Shepard. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Chair also move to yes motion carries. Good luck. Thank you very much. That's where we'll go on to the ground with ground water conservation over the district. It's going to open on there. The case under this category is in B08144-0379 with the address being five to one place. Is the applicant totally going to represent the president? Yes. Can you introduce yourself? Yes, I did, and you'll send. I'm the applicant. Yes. Can you just walk us quickly through your request? Yes. It's the site is currently a baited lock. I'm proposing a single family house. It received ISD approval with no violations other than the ground water conservation or really district submitted plans to Boston Water and sewer and have them approved. I submitted a no harm letter from the engineer as well as Boston Water and sewer commission letter. Mr. Seminelli, are you on? Yes, Madam Chair. Good morning. Members of the board, please be seated. Boston Grower Trust and we have polls coming from the applicant. Thank you. Any questions from the board? No. May I have a motion? Make a motion to approve. Second. Mr. Collins? Yes. Mr. Bernardo? Yes. Mr. Aiken? Yes. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Shepard? Mr. Valencia? Yes. Erosovic, yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Madam Chair, before we move on, I'm just having a little difficulty with my camera. Sorry about that. I am here. I'm listening. Are you not going to be able to see any term in it? You're standing. Thank you. So, March. Next, we have Gilville Cone case. It's getting up to 9.30. And the case is VOA 1445868. The address being 210 West Springfield Street. Is the applicant with your representative present? This Mr. McCarthy with us. Praise the dance here. Let me just... Oh, yeah, Greg McCarthy. One second. Greg, I'm making a panelists. You could just approve it when it pops upon your screen. And you'll be able to unmute yourself and state what you're looking to do. Hello, everybody. Sorry about that. No worries. Good morning. Good morning. Members of the Board. So, we're here for day for 210 West Springfield Street. This is the variance that we're seeking is for roof deck access. We have been to the ZBA about four or five months ago. And it was our plan to approve the provision and change the access from the roof deck from the headhouse to a bubble hatch. So we did that, but when we changed it, it changed from the zoning violation to a building code violation. So we wanted to come back and request the leave on that, which is access to the roof hatch is by the bubble hatch, which is not allowed by the zoning code, by building code, by policies. And the other vision we made is we had big rear decks of the back building, which we reduced down to five feet. I think the request was 60, but after we talked to the self-identimate district, they recommended five feet to the right. Five feet on the rear decks sound and change the access to bubble hatch for the roof deck. Yes. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Hearing none, may I have a motion? Motion to approve. Man, second. A second. Thank you, Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Schupper. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Yes. Mr. Panato. Yes. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Chair also wants to ask motion carries. Good luck. Thank you very much. Next, I'll move into the hearing schedule for 9.30 AM. At this time, we'll ask if there are any request or deferralable withdrawals at this time. Please raise your hand if you're in the attendee section. Any looking for deferral? Hearing none, the first case would be being away 143.0845 with the address of 143 to 143. C from on street. Is the applicant or the representative? Good morning, I am. This is Mike Ross, attorney with the law firm at Prince Oval at one international place. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. I'm here with the architect on this project, Alita Alba. What we have here is a proposal to erect five new town homes with nine parking spaces in this 1F 5000 sub district of Brighton, which is very close to the Newton order right on the left of the building to the left of the building. In this side here and what you're looking at close up is the rendering the building on the left with the tree in front of it. That is 143 tremor. And that is what we are proposing on this lot that's 11230 to long narrow lot that goes all the way back. I'll show you the moment. It's remarkably similar to this building to the right there, which is also five units was built about 10 years ago. Pretty much has the exact same property size and around that 11,000 plus square footage. Just below this image here, there's a rendering just to give you a sense of what we're trying to do here. The, and you can see that long narrow lot that slopes upwards as it goes back. The gray or the hatched black hatches here. That is the original building. That's up today. That's a two family building. And what we're proposing is that light blue outline there to allow for the five town houses and then the parking next to it. If you go to the next sliding, give you a little more context to where this is. This is good. So you can actually see the Newton border right there on the left. So we're pretty much the last house before noon. And then there's that long narrow lot. And then you can see that companion lot. It's not, it just happens to be next to us. It's not the same ownership. It's just interesting. It's around the same size and similar building. Massing what's called a next slide question. And here you have now the site plan. So what we have here is you're looking at the ground floors of each of the five townhouses which will have its own parking. We move trash into the actual units at the request of the community process. You see these four parking spaces to the right of the building. So together that makes nine, which is the required number by zoning. And that fence you see at the bottom, we've agreed to install that along the top of this plan here just to provide a fence between us. And one other, I guess there's one other building, one other residence to the left of us there. So we'll be putting up that fence there for privacy. Next slide, please. All right, good question. Is it one curb cut that accesses all that parking or how many curb cuts do you have? Yeah, the existing curb cut just one. Thank you. Yep. And so then here you have just a close up of what you were looking at on the first floor, but now you see the second floor just below it. And the second floor what you see there is one of the bedrooms, the kitchen, the living room, one of the bathrooms, and there's a balcony off each of the bedrooms that are. And just to give you a sense that these units, they're about 2,000 square feet that they ran from 1979 square feet to 2,256 square feet and each are a three bedroom two and a half bath. Next slide, please. And now this would be the third floor. So this is where you'd have two more bedrooms and two more baths. The next slide here, I'll give you a little more. I think the elevation, we'll give you some some sense while we're down there. So the the upper elevation is your view from Tremont Street, what you're looking at. And then the lower is the right side of the building along the driveway where the garage entrances and main entrance reach unit are parking in the rear. The next slide, please. And this is the reverse elevation. So the upper one is the back of the building. It's from you from the backyard. And then the left side of the building is the lower. And each one of those doors there empties out to a patio and individual patio for each of the townhouses. You know, for you, for you, where you could grill or do what you know, have a little patio area right there. Next slide, please. So these are just some context images you saw the one in the upper left. The one in the upper right shows the building from the other side. The middle view, what you see, what you're seeing there is our building is along with the tree in front of it. That's the existing two family that's there today. The lower left, it's on the right side of the street now. It's across the street from those from those commercial buildings again where the big tree is. And then the lower right, lower right corner is actually a pretty good context photo if you want to just zoom in a little quickly. That just shows you kind of what's going on in this area. There's a very large multi-family building to the right of that kind of companion lot building I mentioned earlier. And then the proposed building that we're talking about is the one that has that tree in front of and there you can see a map chair that existing curb cut that's there today. And next slide, please. I think there's just one more slide and that just that just gives you kind of renderings of what we're proposing here. Just really quickly, let me just walk into the relief we're seeking today. So it's it's a use as I mentioned we're looking to do five townhouses and that one half five thousand townhouse being forbidden and multi-family being forbidden and because we're creating the additional four parking spaces those parking spaces are considered forbidden to. The dimensional regulations FAR in this part of the city is 0.5. We are at 1.1. The building height even though we have a man's yard roof we are still at three floors and in this part of the district it's a two and a half floor requirement. We are actually below however the height restriction of 35 or at 32 and a half for our height. On the side yard we meet one of the side yards which is 12 feet so we have 22 feet on one side but on the left side we only have a five foot side yard setback because the location of the main front door is for only one of the units facing Tramon Street and the other four units are not facing the main front inch we were cited for that as well. And finally the front yard requirement for this section of the district is 20 we are at 14.5 or the 29. Just on community process we was sure about to hear of course from Owen asked we did go in front of BAA and were approved there. I'll pause there Madam Chair and see if there are any questions. Mr. Collins any questions on the plans? No I know the drawings are adequate. Thank you any questions from the board. Madam Chair one question so it looks like the design has so that everyone has a little patio and a balcony is there you've got four parking spaces and a retaining wall so is there open space for use in the rear or is that essentially inaccessible. I'm just looking at sort of the site design and seeing that this is you know very you have a building that was recently at 99 Tramon I guess that has slightly lower than a one and a half parking ratio when I understand so I'm just trying to understand some of the site plan layout considerations for the release request. Yeah we it's a lower taming wall. Mr. Hagen and so it is an accessible yard I mean there is some pitch to it but there is a lot of yard with this project because of the large size of the the lot itself and we were not cited for open open you know a violation of the open space so you know that plus I think the individual unit balconies and the and the patios you know create ample opportunity for for access to that to that open space. Thank you. Any other questions? Can you talk a little bit about the landscape plan? I may see a fair amount of green but can is there a landscape architect working with you and what's what do you intend to do here? Yeah I'm not sure we we didn't bring on a landscape object on this one we we are not taking down any trees for the construction of this project including that country on the street tree of course it's not our tree to take down it's the city of Boston but we're not disrupting any trees all the plantings you see around the perimeter of the building will be bushes and you know our architect is on the call a leader could probably talk more about what she's planning to do there but you know other than the the retaining wall and that those bushes that's really the extent of what we're doing landscape wise there will be a pervious the the parking area you see is a pervious material so and that was part of the community process so you know the groundwater will go right back into the ground through that that was something I came up as well and then we added a little bit of green just even to the front of each of the unit you see a little bush there so that was done you know deliberately to try to create a little bit a little more green thank you thank you any other questions here in men let's open it to public us on yes so good morning madam chair members of the board Franklin Dosa here also in bright and liaison for the mayor's office of neighborhood services deferred to the judgment of the board but here to testify of an as-to-be community engagement process for this property the applicant having the butter's meeting and also met with the Brighton Austin Improvement Association the local civic for this area we didn't really hear back any significant opposition from the community or from the butters with the exception of one of the residents of the current property who did not really understand the process and the timeline associated with it but I understand from the developer that they were able to connect with that individual and talk things through with him and help him with his understanding oh that said well deferred to the judgment of the board as always and thank you thank you mr. Rindosa okay do you have one raised hand here um in a bill of madam chair members of the board and of our gums for the Brighton Austin Improvement Association uh we voted to support this project we feel like this is a great location at quality family size housing um and they have really prepared to adding more landscape and the criminal pay rooms and everything so we really feel it's a great location and it is consistent with the existing house a little in the compliments the building that was approved by the board power ten years ago grab pretty much matches except this project actually will give us no green and really make it a great family housing size for people to then thank you you can you test them okay okay but we'll just hand i have no additional raised hands thank you thank you was that may have a motion madam chair i make a motion to approve with me being in the aid this hand career man the second thank you mr. Collins yes is panato yes mr. achin yes mr. sumberg yes mr. shuffard yes mr. valencia yes chair also votes yes motion carries good luck thank you very much thank you next we have case b08 144th work re147 the address being 309th summit avenue is the applicant or representative yes good morning madam chair members of the board markly cast the cast law 75 orange and street and boston a train for the object proponents which in this case is chash desika and mike flin are the project proponents also with us is the architect David of salivate this is a proposal to demolish an existing building at three of mine summit avenue in brighten which is at corner boston street here's the location it's basically a one block down from coming off avenue in in area across the street and along uh alston and summit of multi-family residential structures large urban buildings um in this proposal is to align with those types of buildings as well next line in here's just an aerial view of the site location one block from come out of the intersection of summit avenue in alston next line here's some photographs of the existing context of the building on the left are photographs of the existing structure which is proposed to be demolished on the lower right is the large multi-family building across the street dynamic across the street from the subject property next line we can just more photographs of the existing context lower right is the rear of the existing property with the multi-family class of street and houses across summit on the other photos next line here's a rendering of the proposed new structure so to the right hand side the screen is summit avenue and that is the front door the lobby of building it's a three-story building on the front side on summit avenue but you can see the slip of the land growing down alston's feet that in the back where we tuck the garage into the building it reads as a four-story building in the back but in front on the corner of summit avenue with three-story building um next slide please and this is the rear waiting curb plot for the entrance to the garage at the lower level with parking from nine spaces and it is proposed to be a nine-year-old building with three units on each floor each of the units are three bedroom size units um important to note this project started many years ago as a very different proposal under small project move with the BPDA it was a larger building with a higher unit count and some smaller units but through the community review process we were moved in the direction of reducing the size of the building reducing number of units and increasing the size of the units which is how we ended up with this proposal next slide incorporating some balconies on the units for some outdoor space this is the front of the building and summit avenue uh during the small project review process there was a desire to keep the front of the building set back from summit create this nice open space for the entry front door building next slide this is the lower level showing the parking garage with nine spaces or compact traces by sleeping-sized spaces and a bicycle storage room with space for 16 bicycles mechanical systems and a trash room and the elevator pit next slide please typical floor planings on the left is the first floor plan you can see there are larger size units three units per floor on the right is the tip-the-roll second and third floor plans next slide these are our reasons for my right front is the three or nine summit avenue entrance and the side is one side of the building with the lower level not showing a missile next slide please and these are elevations with the bottom right showing the rear of the building with the garage and three floors of residential above next slide and that's it one item I would like to note for the recommended chairs that on the um plans and the refusal letter the FAR is noted as 2.97 that's a math error the actual proposed FAR is 1.48 and it's significantly lower than what's shown on the plans um with that comes with my presentation and take any questions and comments thank you Mr. Cuts any questions from the board can you walk us through the violations? Sure thing um so the required parking is 1.75 per dwelling unit which would be 16 spaces we have a 1.0 there here we go we have 9 spaces which is one on a one given the transportation location of coming on through having a block away everything that's sufficient and provided the 16 bike storage traffic visibility is cited it is a corner lot a corner of summit avenue all since free but because the building is pulled back from summit out there's more than sufficient visibility for cars coming in either direction it is in a three F sub districts the multi-family use is forbidden but as shown there are lots of the predominance of buildings in this particular area are larger multi-family residential buildings additional lot area per dwelling unit is 2000 so that would require 18,000 square feet this is a 9,200 square foot lot avar max is 0.8 2.97 which is not correct the actual farrows 1.48 I'm building height was cited for proposed four stories again three stories in the front four stories in the back because of the slope of the land the height in feet max is 35 we're at 39 use of a open space 58 50 would be required we have 2970 with the introduction of the balconies and actually leaving a lot of the lot area about 50 percent of the lot area remains as open the front yard required is 20 feet and that is about 6.5 on the Austin street side let more than sufficient on the summit street side with that desired setback to create the little park area in the front and the rear yard requirement is 30 and at that point the proposal is 26 and four inches and those are five is there a currently on curb cut there is so the curb cut utilizes the existing curb cut which will be the entrance to the garage of the lower level okay uh mr. Hampton can you walk us through your recommendation if you're on yes thank you madam chair the members important the bp8 were recommended to know without prejudice the number of violations is excessive we feel that the proposal is excessive also in speaking to one mr. Cass had mentioned about the multi-family dwellings across the street kitty corner to you this project uh this is zoning district some sub district line does go down some of that so those buildings are zoned mfr for multi-family residential uses this is zone three family and we just feel that the project itself is too big for this lot thank you any other questions from the boy? yes does this fall i don't know if this would also be a question for mr. Hampton but does this fall in any kind of planning areas that have been underway or are looking at no this is just changes no no zoning changes obviously but you know i'm planning a area not a mystery okay one question there uh looks like at least historically sorry it's for the proponent there's a very large tree on the site is that still there it's a point time it is not um there are the two units causing significant damage to the existing building and the tree has been uh removed okay so is there any is there planned for for a new new tree is just part of this development it looked like there was a bunch of maybe shrubbery i couldn't tell i didn't uh don't recall yes and as part of when when it was an application for small project review there was a lot of work done on that front area along some of it i have including setting the building back to create that open space in the front so we're sticking with that um directly thank you okay mom should i have a question for the proponent yes sir you're welcome thank you you mentioned during your presentation that the project initially have a larger number number of units how many units did you propose initially and well with the reason why you it's like the two-reel the unit count yep so uh charge sake and my seat is raising its hand is the project but first you want to jump in on that you're sure uh thank you um commissioner i think uh you know initially we were at 19 units which did receive some significant support uh from the community through conversations with director butters um they who felt that that was too large for a project for this site uh we worked in concert with them to reduce the size and create larger units to be family-sized units um we have maintained that green space along some of the ad knowing that there's a real need for that in the community um excuse me and i've talked to to arcs department about installing and you know maintaining and paying for street trees along all strenstreet recognizing that's really important for this community um you know myself my partner Mike Flynn both lived on this street um in years past and are really committed to this area and know how support uh adding that green space is um and we felt that you know being uh in a harmonious existence without the record butters believe i've sent out letters of support for this project at this point uh was was really critical to move forward okay thank you yes i'm looking at the street across the street in down the street so i were just thinking about losing those units and you were from 19 to nine so technically the city is losing two uh IDP units without reduction so i was going to point out to to that that family being the encroached street already thank you ma'am sure thank you mr. Valencia any other questions from the board you know what i mean i have public testimony yes uh good morning ma'am chair excuse me members of the board frank mendoza here also written the azum from mayor's officer and the new board services uh m sess they have mr. mendoza you're coming in it now correct hmm mr. mendoza here a number of years bright most of the facilities on testifying mendoza organization stances out to this project and uh with that sent people to fur i'm sorry i'm sorry i'm sorry was was i could you hear me no we cannot you nor see if you could start over that would be great thank you all right okay mr. mendoza's friend yeah uh let's proceed i think he needs to uh we can't restart so Greg can you say thank you ma'am and i just been in the record please once i'm muted in anabella okay um great we have some connectivity issues in abella do you want to try yeah ma'am chair members of board anabella gums with right and austin-proven association uh this project has gone through a lot of iterations since uh 2021 and uh with concerns from the neighbors of the being too large they have reduced the project to the size um this is how the neighbors they're feel comfortable uh that area does have three very large projects surrounding it on michin ten street and calm out and i've brought a lot of concerns to the neighbors on the size and um they um are happy with this size being nine units so uh the biivore to support this thank you thanks i'm no additional praise thanks uh adem chair members of the board call on a newman with the mayor's office member the services at this time the mayor's office looks to defer to the judge for the board uh as you heard this project previously went through with bpda bpda led community process uh we're after uh hearing concerns from neighbors uh the project was dramatically changed over the course of many years that meant uh many times with the bright and also an improvement association which is a local civic for this area uh without me defer to the board thank you thank you any other questions from before let me have a motion i'm sure i would like to post forward a motion to approve the project with with the pbba the sangreview because i was looking at the context the project was ready lost ten units to accommodate the feedback from the abodders and there is a multi-family unit building across the street in uh next block as well so i think the project is a simple unit that unfortunately are not in unrestricted but still we are building some affordable housing for that reason my motion is to approve the project with the pbba in the sangreview thank you man on the second second mr. Collins yes is panato yes the beacon yes mr.cemberich yes mr. shepherd yes mr. vanzia yes chair also goes yes motion carries thank you thank you here next case is b o a 143 1895 with the address of 184 red street you see applicants or they represent the president good morning to uh not insurance board my name is Derek Rubinoff Derek Rubinoff architect i'm here to present architect for the project with me is an object knocked at off of our office and also uh mark client uh mic dahi mic and Aaron um have a growing family and uh they're looking for the more space in there is a single family home you know what's rocks very um they have well you know family roots in the in the neighborhood in fact uh um mic's uh in was the next door on the left and um uh seeking to add about 750 square feet to this call this house so it's existing single family um in a single family six thousand zone and uh we are uh proposals to um add some space to the third floor which is currently at an extort space and then we're adding a small increase to the footprint of the house uh if we look at the uh that plan or a very good so the back right hand corner of the house and the site plan there on the left on the left there yep you can see there's a little bath and never adding on the ground level and that's the only change in the footprint of the house and then on the second level we are um increasing uh the area on the right side for some additional bedroom space and then on the third floor um adding additional bedroom space up there so um our violations as you can see on the top right there in the section we are um we have a violation for a number of stories the building height will conform in terms of feet there's no extension of the building height uh however the uh the third floor attic space will become a third story per the zone could and uh we also are cited for a site's yard setback as you can see in that site plan we're going to go that uh we have about five and a half feet on the side yard that's existing and the way we're filling out the back right corner of the building um we'll maintain that five foot six but um it's extension of an existing non-conflurity um the other violation that is mentioned is FAR and we are going from yeah let's see we are going from we allow it to about maximum point four the existing is point four three and we are proposing to increase the FAR to zero point five eight so we look at the uh the uh the illustrations I think it's on page 1415 of that yeah there we go so on the left you can see the existing photos so on the top left that's the front of the house and then to the right of that in the center of the top it is uh just a model of the existing that you're seeing in the photograph and then the top right you can see how we are filling out the right side of the house and uh we're extending that existing smaller gable that's in line with the main part of the roof for extending that up to um the existing overall ridge of the of the roof and then we're extending that second floor find dorma to the right so the idea is to to have the the addition look like it was always there and in the rear of the house we're getting that additional space on the third floor on that second row there you can see that um there's already an existing dormer on the second floor that goes across the rear and we're adding another dormer higher than that to get that additional bedroom space on the third level so most of the addition won't be visible most of the entire added space will be visible street and what is visible from the street will uh be maintaining the integrity of the design of the existing house. All right thank you. Any questions from the board? All right you're hearing none man public testimony. Yes Madam Chair members of the board Connor Newman from the Airsoft's neighborhood services this time the Airsoft selected to refer to the judgment of this board I'd speak on a community process our office had the uh homeowner circulate a fly to a butters no concerns or race from the butters and we received uh several letters of support which we afforded to this board uh the applicant then went on to meet with the Westfroxbury neighborhood council which for to support the proposal as well without any deferred to the board thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair I have no waste hands thank you. Thank you. May I have a motion? Madam Chair members of the board get on solid and see the council that make a third of the council's floor and records support. Thank you. Okay with that may I have a motion motion to approve with uh the 58 design review. Thank you ma'am second. Thank you. Mr. Collins. Mr. Collins with us. Yes sorry. Okay. Are you yes or no? Yes. Sorry. Thank you. Mr. Auto. Yes. Mr. Lincoln. Yes. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Shepard. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Chair also go to yes. The motion carries. Good luck. Thank you so much. Next we have case BOA 143 2790. The address being 23 we just wrote is the applicant or the representative. Yes. Good morning. Good morning Madam Chair. May members of the board my name is Derek Joyner and we're joined a development of 119 B. Rentham Street. Do you trust the master of 2124? All right Mr. Jarner just real quick Mr. Collins are you recusing yourself on this one? I am recusing myself. Sorry about that. Thank you. Thank you. You're up to this video. Think at the same time but yes I need one to use. Thank you. So it's a six-member board. Uh trees come to me Mr. Jarner. Okay. Um we're proposing to build a three-family home that will have three off street arken spaces in the rear of the property. These units will be marketed as condominiums in order to provide harm on their jet opportunity. This proposal it only has two zoning violations that we are seeking relief for. The first one is use forbidding since we're proposing to build a three-family and a two-f sub-district that created a violation. The second violation is the building I'd excessive for the stories only. It's required to have two and a half stories but like the other three families that are on the street were proposing three stories. Now as shown in the proposed plan unit one has 1400 and 40 square feet of living space. Unit two has 1430 square feet of living space and unit three has 1546 square feet of living space. All three of these units have been passed. This is seven reasons. I'm sorry. Can you give me a phone? Thank you. Sorry, Mr. Groner, please proceed. All three units have three bedrooms, two bathrooms and open floor plan and deed a storage space in the basement. Um like this time I'm happy to answer any questions that the members of the board may have. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Can you talk a little bit about the landscaping and whether it's just a fair amount of payment here? Do you intend to have pervval favors? Yes, there's sufficient. If you can go to the second line, this slide, you can see the green space on page two. Up there we go. There we go. There's plenty of green space so we need the code requirement for that as well as the driveway. We have the parking spots. It will be a P.R. So to answer your question, we have enough space for that. Yeah, my question was whether the payvers are permeable so that water kind of seeps through them? Okay, it's asphalt so we're going to have a drainage system so that it's pitched into the drainage system in the driveway to collect all the water so we can drain, you know carefully. Yeah, I mean I think we'd like it to see pervval favors on these projects as well so that I could consider that. Can you just speak a little more to the landscape and what you intend to do with that green space? Well, it would be grass on the left side of the building. If you can scroll down to the next slide, Jessica. It will be grass on the left side, we will have some shrubbery and of course BPDA, prop more than likely be today review and they definitely go over the landscaping. So we'll have a more detailed landscape and drive to show exactly the trees and shrubberies that would be on the green space. Thank you. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? All right, hearing none, ma'am, public testimony? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Conor Newman with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This time, the Mayor's Office looked at deferred to the judgment of this board. Our office element butters meeting on March 2nd. The applicant then went on to meet with the Greater Matter Pay Neighborhood Council, which eventually voted to support the proposal with several provisos. I believe we provided that letter to this board. There were some discussions around the parking layout, showing the plans. I'd indicate that the three parking spaces take up open yard space at the back porch of the building. There were also conversations with the Woodhaven Colbert and Regis Neighborhood Association, which is active in the area. And I do not believe the applicant has had a chance to present to the Woodhaven Colbert. But Regis Neighborhood Association at this time, although they have been in contact with them, with that in the virtual. Thank you. Mr. Newman, what were the provisos from the Grand Matter Pan Neighborhood Council? I'm doing my best to try to parse through. I believe it was some concerns around parking and in the building size. At it, okay. Do we have, Madam Chair, do we have their letter to Mr. Stembridge? Do we have their letter? We have one letter from Point. The award from Point. Which was the guy's departing yet. And some other comments that were made. I'm sorry. That's a huge request. That's okay. Let's proceed with Mr. Emergios. The office. Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Jordan Freezer from Council of Recorder and Royals Office. We'd like to go on record and support this proposal. To echo Connor, we just want to point out the provisions that the Greater Matter Pan Neighborhood Council had laid out. I can get emailed those to Connor and then he can send them your way if that's okay. I'm having trouble trying to copy and paste them into the chat at the moment. But we want to be on record and support. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Paul Sullivan, City Council, Raj Michael Plarry, echoing the sentiments of Council of Royals Office as well as the Greater Matter Pan Neighborhood Council. Councilor, do we have any support? The Councilor of Recorder and Royals Office. The board, Thomas Mann, and Councilor Periper, please follow this. Councilor Berby at this time would also like to bond record and support. Thank you. That's Cindy. Good morning, members of the board, Madam Chair. I'll see the judges from the office of Councilor Mutilujan. You also would like to go on a important spot. I have no additional raise hands. Thank you. With that, may I have a motion? I'll make a motion to a BPD design review and attention to permeable favors and landscaping. Do you want to make that a provider? Yes, with a provider that these permeable favors and the BPD design review will focus on exterior and landscaping. Thank you. We have a second. Second. Mr. Cala, sorry, Ms. Conato. Yes, Mr. Eakin. Yes, Mr. Stembridge. Yes, Mr. Schupper. Mr. Valencia. Yes, Chair also votes yes, motion carries. Good luck, Mr. Turner. Thank you, members of the board. Have a good one. Thank you. Next, we have two companion cases. Chased B-O-A-135-2114. We're at a dress being six winter street. And in any case of that, it's B-O-A-135-2108. We're at a dress being ten winter street. Is the applicant to represent the president? Yes. Good morning, everyone. Good morning, Mr. Chair and all the members. It's myself here, Southwick Community and Toy, where both the owners of the ten winter street and six winter street. As I already know, so the area has gotten a little bit busy and there's a little bit of traffic around and since we do not have an open curve to work out cars, we have decided to jointly file this perimeter quest to get our cars parked. This is what we are here for today. We have received a lot of support from the Meeting House Hill Association, as well as I think I would actually speak to that. And so that's what we're here for today. So both buildings are showing on both sides and what we're really asking for is a single curb cut that will allow cars to park tandemly in between the buildings. Buildings being ten winter on the right, six winter on the left. That's what the layout of the plans look like. So we've gotten this from a certified service. Thank you. Is Mr. Domingo on by chance or Mr. Stembridge do you have any notes from him? So, Madam Chair. Sorry, Mr. Domingo seems to be on. Yes. Madam Chair, members of the board of the Domingo BTVs. I work with the applicant to adjust the parking plan because the way it was originally proposed, but it was front yard parking, which is something that we don't approve. But he did push them back and it does work from an operational standpoint. And as far as greenery is concerned, I'll leave that up to the BPD8. But from an operations perspective, BTV improves this. Thank you. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Okay. I'm sorry, one quick question. I just understand is the sidewalk is essentially about four feet wide at the point where putting the curb cut in the property line, that what the level part of the sidewalk will be. And I don't know if Bob's there to weigh in on that being acceptable. From what I can see, the width of the sidewalk is I think 6.1, 6.1 inch, which is appropriate. And it does work. The curb cut has to be 14 feet because it allows for more appropriate maneuverability. Okay. So the width is about six feet still after the curb cut between the property line and the street? No, no. It's a six foot one inch now. But when you put in the curb cut, that will be reduced to a like a four foot width. And again, that's something that is pretty common. And that's why I have no opposition to it. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? May I have a public testimony? Good morning Madam Chair, members of the board. As you go into the mayor's office and the board services, some background information on the committee process, office health and the butter's meeting late of 2022. Members and the butter's of the meeting house health social issues. So it's worth an approval of the shared driveway. No significant impact on the community, but that would differ to the board of this time. Any other raised hands? Okay. I have no additional raised hands. With that, Madam, I have a motion. I have a motion to approve. May I have a second? Director. Mr. Collins? Yes. Ms. Benado? Yes. Mr. Eiken? Yes. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Shupper? Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Thank you, members. The board. Thank you so much. Madam Chair, I need to recuse from the next case. Thank you, Mr. Collins. And in this case will be the OA 139-7632. The address being 31-downer Avenue is the applicant or representative. Mr. Brown on? Yes. The other hand is raised. One second. Make it a move, please. Can you hand? Yes, sir. Yes, sir. A little. OK. Good morning, Madam Chair and members of the board. My name is Alexander Graham. This proposed proposal is for 31-downer-half, do it just a mass 0-1-2-5. I am proposing to change my existence to a family and to a three family with three parking spaces in the rear. I will live in unit one and other two units where we provided for home ownership opportunities. I am seeking relief for the following violations. One three family detached dwelling for bin, two restricted roof structure district, three youths for bin, four NDOD review required, five conformity would exist in building alignment, six floor area, ratio excessive, seven building height, excessive for stories, eight front yard and sufficient in nine side yard and sufficient. As shown in the proposed claims, unit one has 1,907 square feet 11 space. There would be two bedrooms. Two bathrooms were open floor, one on the main floor. There would be a master bedroom and study from in the basement. Unit two has 1,1776 square feet 11 space. There will be two bedrooms. Two bathrooms were open floor, a clan unit three has 1,1776 square feet 11 space. There will be two bedrooms, two bathrooms with open floor plan as well. There will be a rooftop exclusive for unit three that's accessible by hatch. I'll propel, I'll pause at this time to answer questions to board later. Thank you. Is there an existing curb cut? Yes, there's an existing curb cut in driveway on the right side building. There's existing two parking spaces out along the admin one more. Can you go back to the basement plan just trying to understand ceiling heights and windows in the basement? Okay, so, ceiling height, if they bring up the plan for the basement proposed, that's it on the left hand side. The house is on the hill, so the right side of the house has a slope the ceiling height is at 7 feet right now, roughly, and with the height of the building going to a three family, it is under the maximum height, so the basement the house can be lifted to accommodate eight feet of ceiling space in the basement and four sides windows on the right side where the master bedroom is. And how do you access the basement? Access the basement, there will be a staircase that goes from first floor down to the basement. It'll be added. It also have a sprinkler system added. And is there any walkout from the basement or you go up through the house? Yeah, there will be a walkout where it's down in the bottom right, the front right, there will be stairs cut out and there will be a four-size door put in the further on walkout from the basement. But you walk upstairs. You can't walk out to the yard from the basement. Yes, you can walk out to the right side of the building. Okay. If you look at the basement on the right side. Okay. Any other questions? Did you say you're lifting the house in order to get a feet of space in for the basement level? Yes. Right, thank you. Mr. Domingo? Yes, Madam Chair, Lady and the members of the board welcome me to be today. Unless I missed it, I saw the parking area. But I didn't see any vehicles depicted on the parking area. Which is very important because you have to take measurements of the vehicles themselves and make sure they have enough of new green areas. Okay. If you pull up the the rear of the building where you have the parking, the three parking spaces. Yes, I see. Okay. I'm sorry. Domingo's scroll right there. Yeah, I see it. Okay. So the three parking spaces are there in the swing area. Yes. Goes all the way to the back of the building. There's two parking spaces that are existing. So maybe that's why the maybe why when it didn't put the actual vehicles there. We need to see dimensions on those parking spaces. Okay. Maybe. Mr. Hamilton? Thank you, Madam Chair. I'm from the board. Our recommendation for this was approval with designer view. And to miss a banana was points. No building code relief knowing that they need the minimum of seven six in the basement. We'd recommend approval with no building code. Also full for the record. For interested does not have a restricted room structure in the strength. I don't know why that was cited. But does not have that regulation in there. So I just won't clear that up. But we're on record. Yes. And for Mr. Brownsake, can you clarify what no building code relief means for that basement? No building code relief. Sorry. I'm asking Mr. Hamilton just to clarify that for you. Yeah. For anything I believe in Mr. A. Get. Mr. Collins please. If I'm wrong anything over a two family. So three family and above you need a minimum of seven feet six inches ceiling height in the basement. So no building code relief means you cannot build in the basement. Is correct on the plans that are currently shown at seven feet. Yes. And that's where this desk money indicated as well. Okay. Any other questions from board? Okay. May I have public testimony? Good morning. Madam Chair, members of the board. As you close again from the mayor's office and the input services. I'm some background information on the committee process. We're going to have office held in the butter's meeting back of 2022. Butter's members from the Jones Hill Association Center project. I believe that the proposal stands in the best interest of the shared committee. With that we have different adjustments to the board. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board. Joe McEckron, City Council of Frank Baker's office. I'd like to go on record and supply. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board. All solvents in the council are like a worry. I'll just go record and supply. Yeah. I have no additional raise hands. Thank you. Would that be a motion? I would make a motion for approval with BPDA design review. No building code relief. We have the second. Second, Dick Hunt. Ms. Pinato. Yes. Mr. Eakin. Yes. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Schupper. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you, Madam Chair. Members of the board. Next we have case BOA 103-49-97. Interest being 120-Binded Street. Is the applicant with the representative? Yes. Yes, I'm here. Can you identify yourself with your address in the record and proceed? This is Mora Kearney. Hello. Hello. Oh, no. So what does that mean, bro? Can we come to Mr. Brown? I'm done. So completed it. It lands. Thank you, Mr. Brown. I was listening to you, Mr. Brown. I was like, whoosh. Can you meet Mr. Brown? So are you? I want to talk to Mr. Brown. All right, sorry about that. Please proceed. Yes. Should I explain it? Yes. Please. Yes. Yes, I'm trying to legalize Basement Department from three family to a four family. The Basement Unit is a very nice unit. There is no trace of a moist or water problem. And since the last neighborhood meeting with David Barron, I have, my electrician has a separate public meter from and brought another socket for a new meter. Now we have the room for five meter, five electric meter. And I enlarged two window from the living room. They were like Basement window. Right now they are like 32 inch by 49 inch long on the living room area. It has three window. One is a small one and two large one. And that wall on the floor plan that shows that is removed. And the living room now looks much bigger. That little hall weight is added to it. That little on the back. You confirm the height of your Basement, sir? Yes, that wall right there on the living room that has been removed with a door on it. Yes, that was removed and not the living room is much longer. So what's the height of the ceiling in your basement? The screens are 7'4, 7'1 inch. That's your Basement height? Yes. And do we have any elevations? Because with basements we want to see the elevations. Either we have a relationship to the ground. I thought in person I brought some pictures and also I brought some videos. But the elevation, what is the question maybe I could... We want to see the relationship to the basement to the ground level. Yeah, basically the... We want to see it though. We want to see it. I don't have any elevation unfortunately. Yeah. Would you suggest a deferral on this binara? Yeah, and you're you also are violating the building code for the ceiling height. That you probably heard in the last case, 7'6", which is the required height of any basement. Well that's the ceiling height, the existing ceiling height. And the building has actually that apartment has three means of Egress that the living room has another Egress but basically has two means of Egress. One from front and one from the back to the parking. Mr. Hampton, you recommended approval with provisos, okay. Can you elaborate on that since giving the ceiling height? Yeah, it's been made. The extension of the living space is the basement. We don't have a problem with it but we also would provide a with no building code. But I would agree with this panato that since there are no elevations shown on this, not that I think anyone would deliberately give the board wrong information or without the plant and showing the elevation. I think this panato is correct and this should be the third. So I think for that, may I have a motion? How make a motion, Mr. Farr? May I have a second? Second. Mr. Collins? Second. I know we're voting. Mr. Farron. Oh sorry. Yes. Okay, Mr. Panato. Yes. Mr. Akin. Yes. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Shepard. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Chair Oslobo, yes. Motion carries. Please, please work with the staff to make sure you provide the information we need for the next time. Thank you. Do we have a deferral date? Oh yeah. Yes, ma'am Joe. We can defer to June 27th. That would be in a time or July 1st. Mr. Cianney, do you have a preference for the June or July date? Stand up, city. I see. Oh, do you want to come back? I can start. Yeah, I could come back. Yeah. Do you prefer having preference for June or July? No, it doesn't matter. June is good, yeah. Okay, so please, okay, come here. Yeah, then June's going to have a round, Jim. Thank you. All right, next case. Next case is BOA. One, four, four, four, two, four, nine. Yes. With the address being 584 East Forest Street, is the applicant for the representative presence? Yes, Mr. Stembridge. Thank you. Good morning, members. This is the board chair. Madam Chair, my name is George Morancy. I'm an attorney with the business address of 350 West Broadway. And so it's Boston. I represent Casey Kenny, the owner of the property, located at 584 East. Fort Street and so Boston within an MFR multi zoning, sorry, multi-family zoning residential sub-district under Article 68. Madam Chair, members, in August of 2020, the board approved the underlying ALT applications here to change the building at 584 East Forest Street from a one family to a three family. ISC subsequently determined that they've missed its own emni-milation on the original refusal to decide the accept back requirement will be approved. Third floor, rear deck. The purpose of this hearing is for the board to add the required relief if you see fish of pursuing to the same plant. The deck with balcony in question is again on the third floor, just over 60 square feet. The plans being displayed now are exactly the same as the plans approved by the board in August 2020. Nothing has changed. The depicted rear deck should have been cited not being set back three feet from the side lot line. Again, nothing is changing here. This is simply a matter of perfecting the record or ISD. The permit has been issued work has been done substantially complete, but no work of course has been yet done on this third floor deck. With that, how long does it take any questions that members may have? Thank you, Mr. Marancy. Any questions from the board? Hearing none, may I have public testimony? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor Newman with the Mayor's Office Neighborhood Services. At this time of the Mayor's Office, I'd like to defer to the judgment of this board. We had the applicant's flyer, the area, just to kind of let the butter smell that they were going back before the board, that no real changes to the project were going to occur. I would do not get any letters of concern, and I believe the applicant was also in contact with the name of the association as well. With that, we defer to the board. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning, Madam Members of the board, I'm Nicole Daron from Council President Flink's office. The councilor would like to go on recording support again to two feedback from neighbors and a good community process to respectfully request that the proponent continues to work closely with neighbors during the construction phase. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor Noff. Madam Chair, members of the board, Paul Solan, and the Councilor Laj Michael Quarity, acknowledging the communal effort that went into capturing our 68th councilor Woodstasy, that was sent in the addition of the third board deck from a previously approved project, and therefore the councilor can make its support. Madam Chair, I'm no waste hands. Thank you. With that, may I have a motion? A motion to approve. And a second. Second. Mr. Collins. Yes. Ms. Panato. Yes. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Shepern. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Thank you. Before we go to the next case, as we approached 11 a.m., are there any withdrawals for the phone to be requested for the 11 a.m. time for? Hearing none. We're on to the next case, which is B.O.A. 1428169, with the address of 98 to 100 F street. Is the applicant with the representative present? Yes. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. Mark LeCas, LeCas last 75 on the Christian St. of Boston. Now I present the honor of this property, Matt Jones, who's with us today. And the author, Dr. Brecker, is Eric Sarkerson. If we get in March to share that photograph in the upper left hand corner, just to give you a sense of the existing properties. So 98 100 are currently separate, deeded properties that my client has acquired both of them. And the proposal here is to combine the lot in order to create two units, but essentially two single family homes, and to join the look of the properties at the front. These are important historic buildings. It's not technically a historic district, but the stretch of Ash Street Husband, Lovely Historic Homes. And the plan here is to restore the sister image of these two homes so that it looks as one rather than the the Hodge Podge of differential that exists now. So each of the structures will be a single family residence in effect and the front of the property will be restored so that it reads as one building. Next slide. So on the plot plan, you can see that there's, you know, the what's left is right, the same buildings. Proposal includes construction of a one-story garage at the rear of the existing structures, which is similar to the building shown along Gold Street next door. It's a kind of building with a garage at the ground floor and retention of that four-foot alley passageway. We worked very closely with the unit owners in the kind of building next door to maintain and actually improve that condition, but pulling away from the rear lot line. And I can show you the existing elevations later, that there's a Hodge Podge of additions that were added to the back of this building that are all coming off and instead will be this one-story garage to mirror the existing condition at the kind of building next door with restoration of the two properties. Also, lower part of the screen, you see small proposed bump-out switch will show better on the elevations, but those are sort of entryways for each of the single family structures from the garage area. Next slide. Yes, so this shows the proposed garage at the rear by joining the properties where we're able to have a single log, which will then be submitted to a condominium masterpiece, so functionally each unit will be one unit as part of a two-unit condo association with the garage, being the shared common area, but each unit will have exclusive use of two parking spaces in the garage. There is the little bump-out on each side, the mudroom on the left, and a bit of the kitchen on the right on the Gold Street side, which again is an improved condition from the existing add-ons that currently exist. Also, on the left-hand side of the property at 96 F Street, we worked closely with that neighborhood to maintain that passageway or actually granting her an easement because functionally that's access to her backyard and a desired accessory to bring trash to the street side, so we worked with that owner and will preserve an easement for her. Next slide. On the right-hand side of the screen is the level two plan. There are two walk-out terraces from each of the single units, and those terraces are on top of the proposed new garage, and then on the third level, there are two small balconies from each of the bedrooms on the upper level of those units. Next slide. Some staircase salivations, next slide. So these are the proposed elevations. Upper left-hand corner is the view from Gold Street facing the side of the building. There's the one-store-proposed garage with the walk-out terraces on top and the small rear deck the third level and the small bump-out on the side of the house. On the upper right-hand side, the front of the building again will be preserved to maintain the unified appearance of the building, and drama windows will be introduced to bring some light into that attic space where there are big bedrooms. Just scroll down a bit so you can see the rest of the elevations. Other elevations lower left-hand side will be the elevation from next door at 96 F street, and then if you were standing in the kind of building on Gold Street, that's the elevation of the property from that side of the property again we worked closely with those unit owners, and the sort of the point while at grade is the garage level, but that is the same condition of their building with the three four foot passageway between the two properties. Next slide. This is the existing condition, so there is a curb cut on Gold Street which will be maintained, it will be the curb cut for the garage. It's a two car driveway currently, and you can see a number of sort of add-ons in the back of the building. Next slide. Next slide. This is the existing condition, celebrations. Upper left-hand corner, you can see there's sort of box addition at the upper level with a side staircase that's all being removed. Behind number 98 there's a one-story box of a slope roof that's being removed. Upper right-hand corner is that side staircase that's coming off the building, and on the lower elevations again the various contraptions and additions over the years that have been added to the back are all being removed to create a much more consistent and unified look to the two structures to make them read as known. Our zoning violations are fairly straightforward. We need a condition use permit for the walk out terraces on the roof of the garage. We're cited for front yard insufficiency, but of course that's an existing condition and there's no change to that condition. Side yard insufficiency again existing condition we're actually improving it with respect to number 96 next door and rear yard insufficiency again existing condition and we're actually improving it by removal of some of those additions in the back and pulling the garage away from the lot line working with the neighbors on Gold Street. And that concludes my presentation. Thank you, Mr. LeCast. Any questions from the board? Is Mr. DeMico on to regarding the parking? Yes, Madam Chair, maybe I am on it. Do you have any comments or concerns? I actually know I understand that they're standing parking, but the one thing that this was commercial then I would have a problem with since it's residential I'm assuming that they'll discuss one and have one another about movements of the vehicles. So I'm fine with that based on the fact it's residential and not commercial. Thank you, Mr. DeMico. Any other questions from the board? Yes, Madam Chair. And just to Mr. DeMico's point each of those two parking space will belong to one unit so one unit will control access to the tandem condition so it'll be an intra household tandem situation. Thank you. Yes, thank you. Any other questions from the board? Okay, with that may I have public testimony? Morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. I'm Anna White with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. Oh, it has hosted in a butters meeting for 98 through 100 aftry on January 4th, 2023. Multiple direct-to-butters attended the meeting and the proponent answered all questions and responded to all concerns. We have received one letter of support and the Cityside Neighborhood Association is in support of this proposal because of how responsive the proponent was to addressing a butters concerns. At this time we'd like to defer judgment to the board. Thank you very much. Thank you. Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Anna Calderon from Council President Flink's Office, the councilor would like to call in recording support due to a good community process and work with the aftters. In respect for the request that the proponent continues to work closely with the construction phase. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, I'm Paul Soler from the City Council of Raj, Michael Clarity. acknowledging the community life that went into drafting act 168 and echoing the sentiments of Council President Flink's Office, Councilor Kigone, record and support. Thank you. Good afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the board, talking in your Councilor Aaron Murphy's office. At this time Councilor Murphy would like to go on support and would also like to echo the words of previous Councilor offices to continue the community and important support. Thank you. Look, are you looking to get testimony here? Okay. If you're not, I have no additional raise hands. Thank you. Without me, I have a motion. I'll make a motion to improve with the BPDA provisions or design review and with attention to increasing the side yard setback. Go ahead and move five foot sidewalk. May I have a second? Second. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Canado. Yes. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Schupper. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Can I just ask one clarification question, Madam Chair, on the five foot side yard? I just want to make sure I understand that. It's on the width respect to the distance between number 96 and 98 and because there's no side yard on the gold street side. Mr. LeCast, what we're trying to have developers do, especially on these smaller streets in South Boston, is excessive ability is becoming real issue. And I don't know if those three-ballards are still existing, but there's no way that someone needing accessibility down gold streets can be able to make a passenger property. So now with these smaller streets, the BDA is asking that there be a minimum sidewalk requirement so that accessibility can be maintained. Sidewalk. Correct. Not that. Okay, understood. Thank you. Mr. Stembridge. Thank you so much. For the last two cases of 930 here in our companion cases, first being BIA 144763, with the address of 48 Montgomery Street and along with that case BIA 14767, the address also being 28 Montgomery Street. Is the applicant, would they represent the president? Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board, John Moran, the 24th of the all-nother slip-on. We are seeking relief for a cheek-on permit and also building code relief. In reference to the cheek-on permit, the full time-less letter of water and sewer stamped drawings and a letter of compliance from the water and sewer have been duly filed, meeting the requisites for the insurance of a cheek-on permit. Madam Chair, you wish me to then address the building code relief? Yes. In reference to the building code relief, we are cited under section 1011.12.2. For access to the proposed roof deck requirement that it be a penthouse, we are proposing a hatch as access as a compliance alternative. The property is located within the south end landmarks district. It is a contributing building to the accredited national historic district. Adding a roof penthouse would distort the street profile, which is one of the identified criteria of the landmarks. The proposed hatch access compliance with the zoning code, if a headhouse is proposed a variance from the zoning code would be required. The hatch access is a common means of approved egress within the district. It has been approved on numerous projects and is then deemed a safe condition alternative. The hatch access we suggest is an acceptable compliance alternative under section 30 for 12 compliance alternatives. The renovated building will be fully sprinkled. No hazard to the occupants of the building will be presented by granting this variance. And the building will remain totally within the all-fire fighting equipment and safety vehicles. In since this is a debt, we reconstruction, renovation, all of the materials and workmanship must comply with new construction. Based upon that we request the variance to install a hatch. Thank you. Mr. Seminelli, do you have those layers? Yes, Madam Chair. Good morning, members of the boy, Christian Seminelli, boss of our trust, and we have both letters from the applicant. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Okay, here and none. Mayor Public Custom Morning. Hi, yes. I'm Dr. Newton, Madam Chair and Members of the boy. I came here, Shirley, from the mayor's office of the neighborhood of services. The mayor's office is supposed to do it different to the board on this matter. Our office has received no questions or concerns from the abutters. Just ask the coordinator any construction of other projects in the area. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the boy, Anna Carver, on the Council President, Flink's office. The council would like to go on recording support. Looks to good community process and no outstanding issues. Preparative by English or the civic team. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Paul Solven, City Council, and the chairman of the board, please. Good afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the board, Clown, Mayor, and Council President Murphy's office at this time, Council President Murphy would like to go on support. Thank you. I believe that you're looking to give testimony here. I send the request on mute. Okay. I'm not sure. Then I have no additional ringstands. Thank you. Madam Chair, before we vote, can we hear from the thing about sort of off street parking and layout and maneuverability on this site? Mr. Domingo, are you on? Yes, I am. I review the plan and it is doable. It might be kind of tight, but like I said before, with another case, it's done on climate for this type of design to be an operation. So I have my own position to this. I thank you. Thank you. With that, do I have a motion? Madam Chair, if we need two motions, those were like yes, and I would have to have the key card and we need a motion underneath. So I'll make a motion to prove the G card. Actually, I'm trying to make this lady become a big new panelist, but it's telling me that the chat is disabled. Yes. Closed. Yeah. Who is the lady? Who is the lady? The lady. The lady. Someone named Closed, can you? My name is Closed. So we need to make a motion. Thank you. I need to make a motion to make a motion to make a motion to make a motion. You just have to pull it out once it appears on your arm. I'm sorry. We're so excited to make a motion. Can you please mute me so we can proceed? Thank you, Jessica. Okay, sorry. Was there a second on the G card motion? I'll start the motion. Thank you. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Canado. Yes. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Shephard. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. May I have the next motion? No, no, no, no. You can't go up. I'd like to make a motion for a approval. Would you be a design review? Mr. Ampoule, is that Mr. Piedit? You don't need a design review on this. Okay. You know. Okay, so you have a second. So, second. Thank you, Mr. Collins. Yeah. Mr. Canado. Yes. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Shephard. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Thank you. Thank you. Next, we'll move on to the 11AM hearings. First case being BOA 143-9355. With the address being 68, make sure. Is the applicant or their representative president? Yes. Mr. Stembridge. I am here. Attorney. Good afternoon, everybody. Good afternoon, Madam Chair. Members of the Board of Attorney John. The Genial behalf of the applicant for 68 lakeshore rodent. Brighton. This is a 68 lakeshore rodent is zoning is 1F 5000. The lot size is 5,794 square feet. I'm with here with today Adriana Rojas along with the partner. At the Andean, who are the owners of lakeshore drive. They purchase a single family home almost 10 years ago. They're looking to update and renovate their living space. The proposed project is to demolish existing one car garage and sunroom attached to the existing attached to the existing to be that two and a half story home and a right to two story edition of the right side of the home. The proposed addition will include two tier two car tandem garage. Two additional bedrooms one on each floor and two bathrooms one on each floor. The first layer of the additional also include an office space as well as a living room. The addition will also expand the front porch on the dwelling. So this home is currently 1615 square feet. The addition would bring it up to 2417 square feet for a net game with 800 square feet. If you look at our reviews letter from ISD. Our only violation was an existing side yard violation with a minimum of 10. The proposes a five foot two five foot two. What that is existing as present today. Any questions from the board? Thank you, Mr. Pujo. Any questions? Garnes are adequate. Thank you. Hearing none, ma'am, public testimony. Yes, good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board, are you able to hear me? Yes, sir. I'm seeing you. Lovely. It's time the Office of Neighborhood Services would like to defer to the board. I'm sorry, this is Frank Mendoza, Office of Neighborhood Services, also right in the A's on. At this time, oh, and as we'd like to defer to the judgment of the board, but we would like to testify to the community engagement that this applicant underwent, namely reaching out to butters and also reaching out to the Global Civic Association, the Brighton-Alson Group Association, the Joint Zoning Chair, which I believe is on to testify right after me. We didn't hear very much opposition from a butters. Mostly folks who reached out and wanted to see a copy of the plans or the refusal letter, but didn't actually have any follow-up comments to me. There was a single letter of opposition which we forwarded to the board and the board should have on file. But other than that, we're unaware of any significant opposition from either nearby butters or from the community at large. With that said, we'd like to defer to the judgment of the board. Thank you. Thanks, ma'am. Good morning. This is Marma Creighton Council. Raidings Office. The Council would like to go on records and play this project. Thank you. Thank you. And Chair, members of the board, Paul Solvins, the Council of Light, Michael Clarion, the Council of Agricultural Records. Madam Chair, members of the board, Annabelle Gomes, and the Brighton-Alson Group Association. I'd like to go on record and support. This is also consistent with other additions on Make sure I vote as well. And it's keeping your homeowner out of the carpet. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. All right. You're in the car. William, you look at a gift testimony here. I sent a request on you. Go ahead. I'm, I'm, I put in our request for 2327 feet at which we'll come up further. Okay. We're going to get tested on here. Who is supposed to? Good afternoon. Madam Chair, members of the board, Thomas Main, and Council Aaron Murge's office at this time. Council Murge, we'd like to go on record and support. Thank you. Okay. No additional raise teams about Chair. Thank you. Would that lay out a motion? A motion vote for APDA Designer, are you? Man, the second. Second. Second. Mr. Collins. Yes. Ms. Panato. Yes. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Shepard. Mr. Shepard on. I'm sorry. I was muted. Yes. Thank you. Mr. Lancia. Yes. Chair also votes. Yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Next, we have case VOA 143-842-3 with the admin. Just being five to Laney Circle. Is the applicant or the representative? Yes. Madam Chair, members of the board, my name is Eli Myers and this is my wife, the alma mater's property owners of five to Laney Circle. Presenting on behalf of ourselves. We purchased our home in 2009. We have lived in it since with our growing family. I mean, our family has grown. Thank God, the five children and expecting. We saw the need for additional space and hope to be granted relief to add an addition to our existing home. To describe our project, we're seeking to add two additions to our home. Firstly, we'd like to add bedrooms to the top floor. By removing the roof of the second floor, raise the walls and build a new roof, which you can see here in this image. This would add three bedrooms to our home as well as a bathroom. That can be seen here in this slide over here. Next slide please. Secondly, we would like to extend the dining area of our first floor to the rear of our home. That extension can be seen here in this slide. With these additions, we are seeking relief in three areas. Number one is FAR. The maximum allowed FAR in our area is 0.5. Our home is currently at 0.38. And we are proposing a new FAR of 0.58, which is about 400 square feet over. Number two is the stories height. Our current home is two stories. And we are proposing to add a third story. And number three is rear yard insufficiency. The dining room pension, which you can see in the next slide. We result in a setback of 13.7 feet, which is just under the required money for setback. Next slide please. This is just the site plan where you can see where the rear extension, the proposed first floor addition. It's just shy of a few feet on one side of the rear setback as well as about just over six feet on the other side. Next slide please. Just as a comparison to a neighbor that's read across from us, the recently regretted relief also a home in expanding their home to three stories. And an FAR of 0.95, which is far more than our proposed addition. Next slide please. Why did you just give as far as the stories height relief? I believe that there's some special consideration regarding the topography of our home surrounding community. As you can see, our home is situated on a hill with the elevation continuing to rise behind our home. Next slide please. And over here you can see that from the entrance of our home to Rushmore Street behind us, there's a different elevation. There's a gain of over 20 feet. So we feel that extending the additional story won't have a great impact on most of the neighbors around us. It won't appear to be a towering structure as a three story, how a home may sound to be. Next slide please. Now this is just an image taken from Rushmore Street, the street level looking towards our home, which is in the center of the picture. So you can see that the current second floor of our home is level, more or less, with Rushmore Street. Therefore, adding a third floor will not really impact our abouting neighbors in terms of building height. Also due to the position of our home in relation to East and West, adding a floor would only detract sunlight from the home that you see on the left, and they are not an objection whatsoever to our project and very supportive. Thank you for your time and consideration. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? Sorry, hearing none, we have public testimony. Yes, good morning, Madam Chair members of the board. Frank Mendoza, also brightened liaison for the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. At this time, he likes to defer to the judgment of the board. The South African had an abouter's meeting and also met with the Brighton-Alson Improvement Association. There were also a number of letters we received, which we forwarded to the board. 14 in support to an opposition. One abouter reached out and didn't ask to be forwarded to the board, but did venture and concern regarding height and specific. Some of the abouters who were in attendance at the abouter's meeting had similar concerns as well, a couple of those. And some of the other abouter's who were present and later world letters were in support. That's it, we like to defer to the judgment of the board. And I believe Annabelle Gomes is on to test twice the sense of the BAAA. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning. This is more of a great, more of a great from Council of Raidens Office. The Council would like to express her strong support for this project. She appreciates that this project will allow the mayors to dot their home to their needs and help them stay in the neighborhood. Thank you. Hello. Madam Chair, members of the board, Annabelle Gomes, the Brighton-Alson Improvement Association, we voted to support this project. We do feel that the height will have little to no impact on the abouting mayors and they have supported the one that does. And we think it's important to keep a growing family in the neighborhood to the best-grown record and support. Thank you. Thank you. What's up, Mayor? Have a motion? A motion to approve. May I have a second? I'm sorry, go. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Benado. Yes. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Mr. Sanbridge. Yes. Mr. Shepard. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Next we have case B.O.A. I'll fill in about a trip. At this point we should ask if the I go for the 1130 period. Is there any request for deferrals or withdrawals at the start? I'm going to request a deferral here. I said there were requests on you. I am. Thank you. Yes, can I try to say something? I think I'm sorry, Jessica. You just have to be elevated. You see architect on 1130. I had 30 minutes. I'll just. Oh, okay. Sorry. All right. Thanks. Thank you. Thank you. All right. Doesn't sound like there's any more. Move over then. Yes. Thank you. The next case is B.O.A. 1, 4, 4, 7, 1, 4, 6. With the address of 1035, 1037 Commonwealth Avenue. This is all this is very powerful. Any project is the applicant or their representative president. Yes. Thank you, Mr. Stembridge. Attorney John Paul Genie. Graphically. Good afternoon, Madam Chair. I'm on the board of attorney John Paul Genie. On behalf of the applicant. Mapping and dojo to JD. With me this afternoon is William Lee from Money French Architects who helped with the presentation. As Mr. Stembridge stated, this is an article 80 project. 1035, 1037 Commonwealth Avenue. It's in Alston Brighton. Zoning is Community Commercial 2. The last size is 11,993 square feet. The proposal is to raise an existing structure. It's a one-store retail location. You all remember the city store retail store. It's been vacant for about 12 years, believe it or not, over by BU. And construction approximately new six-storey building. With 55 residential units and 3653 square feet of ground floor retail. In the 55 units and we comprised of through the community we have five three bedrooms on average size of 1024 square feet. 15 two bedrooms, 898 square feet, 21 bedrooms, 662 square feet, and 15 studios. It's an average of 479. The building will include a residential entry lobby and service spaces. Zero parking spaces will be provided and 55 bicycle spaces will be provided. Nine of the units approximately 16.5% will be affordable at 70% AMI. The proponents also making a 15,125 dollar contribution to BTT to support the Blue Bikes program and also Brighton. And this was approved by the BPD-8 board on February 16, 2023. Additionally, we expect community benefits. The applicant has been working with Council Readon's office on making a size of a donation to a park in their area and he's working on that now. Violations FAR 2 is allowed in the zoning code for R7, the highest 35 or 68 parking is two per unit. We're not proposing any parking and that came as a result of our article. The process, same as the loading zone, residential use is conditional in a multi-family in a community commercial zoning sub-district and then we have re-melted all the way which you know, just another level with review. Naturally, we have like a sub-web went through a very lengthy process. We work extensively with the community. This building where it's located there are much higher buildings than it, especially right behind it. And we went through, we met with the ACA, had great meetings with them. I think different and full support and you know, had separate meetings with the council or have done a tremendous community outreach. Are there any questions on this proposal? Thank you. Any questions from the board? Yeah. Yes sir. My first question would be, what's the breakdown of the units? Is this like, I know you have not affordable but is this more like, for the college students, a lot of one better units to break the out of the units? So that's a good question. There is five three bedroom units and that was as a result of the community because I want a family-style unit. Fifteen two bedroom units, 21 bedroom units and 15 studio units. So it's not geared toward a college student at all. This is no geared toward a graduate student professional living in the area that would like to have the trolley right in front of the building so that if you get in time, it's a perfect TOD development. And my second question would be, you know, a busy column out. What's the duration for construction and how they chose in a GC-concept project? If they have it, we have used a union in the past, the same developer. So I'm assuming that's the way he'll go on this as well. He's still going to be entitled in the period of getting permits and approvals. And I would say the timeline of the building of this size, because one of the things that came a result of the BPDA article A process was they wanted us to preserve the facade of the existing structure which we have done in these findings. So I would say probably about 18 months of construction. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? I have a couple of follow-up questions. It looks like it may be historically there was some parking and there was going to be stacker parking, so just trying to understand exactly when that was recognized with the notes that we have about the refusal and related to the BPD approval and what we're seeing. Now, so you can just walk us through the history on that briefly. Sure, Dave, you're saying that the BPDA, we had gone to the BPDA because they really, because of where this building is located, it's kind of a commercial area, they would, they really wanted us to have much more of a retail presence on that street. And they felt like because of its location right on trains and trolleys that really there would be no need for parking. So that's why that changed it involved through the article A process. And after the article A process too, with further conversations with the BPDA. Okay, so BPD is a part of that and the community was in part two? Yes, and we are, I think when it finally went David, it was somewhere, I'm sorry, I'm mistaken, it was somewhere around three parking spaces at the end and the BPDA says that point. You know, it's kind of pointless to have those three spaces you can use it as drop-offs for deliveries and things like that. However, with respect to the parking, this building is a parking, a building that screams we don't need parking because of this location. Yeah, no thank you for that. Two last questions. You mentioned about the three bedrooms and being family-sized units, but what is the intent of actually leasing those to families? How does the proponent, I guess, intend to not least those to unrelated individuals if that's the intention that their family units just curious how they intend to manage that. It's not a zoning piece per say, but when we get those comments about that, I think there's a divergence perhaps, sometimes from how they're actually operated. Right, and that's another good question. So, to wrap the process as you guys are aware of when you go into community, you're proposing different size units, everybody is looking for family-style units, especially in an area like Austin, Brighton, where we have many more small units and not many, many large. So the goal is, and one of these will be designated affordable as well. The goal is to market these toward families and not toward. I mean, it's going to be a beautiful nice building. They don't have any anticipation to rent it out to undergraduate students that wouldn't anyway, you know, destroy a building or just not treat it as the same as somebody who was maybe a little bit more mature and, you know, understands that they're living in a nice building. Thank you, I guess, the video will serve as record of that. And then very last, it looks like based upon the mitigation of the Arctic Laney, this contribution from parks was not part of that. So is that something new that's come up? The, there's, yeah. So we had met with, the reason one that happens is when you're exceeding your affordability like we are, the community benefits can sometimes be dismissed on that. But Mr. Pignino and I had conversations and I believe more in the crave from Council of Reves Office, and on this call, to designate some money outside of this toward an assignable money money. He's, this guy lives in Brighton. He's lived their whole life. He's done several of the developments there. He understands this is not going to be his last project. So he would like to work well with the community. So we've had some conversations with the Council's office about making a, a size of a donation to a park which they are very involved with. Okay, thank you for explanation. Thank you, David. Any other questions? Yes, sir. Thank you. So for the proponent, your project is providing nine in unrestricted units. Correct? That is correct. And all of the units are for 70% of the area with the income. So my question, what is the reason why the project is not allowing some of those units to have deeper levels of affordability? I'm thinking about all the families who are under 30%, 40%, 64%, 60% of the area with the income, and they don't have an opportunity to get access to the comments and you are proposing. So why are the units at 70% and not lower the amount of mix of incomes? And it was, you know, normally when you're going to the article 80 process, a condominium would be 80% AMI and a apartment would be 70% AMI. That's what the traditional thing is. So this was negotiated when we were preparing for the BPA board. And obviously giving more than 13% affordability was something that factored them as well. Okay, thank you. Any other questions from the board? Karen, I'm Ma'am, public testimony. Yes, good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board, from Mendoza here, Mayor's Office of New York Services, Austin Brighton, liaison. I just wanted to testify that it's part of their community engagement process. This applicant reached out to the Alcensive Association. Earlier this morning, the board should receive the letter of support from the Alcensive Association, regarding Ms. Proposal. With that said, we'd like to defer to the judgment of the board at this time. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning, Ma'am Creight from Council of Braids Office. It counts to be going on record and support this project. She's forced this project because it will replace a currently vacant storefront and will provide housing in an excellent transit oriented location. Thank you. Thank you. Any other questions? Ma'am, are you all set? Thank you, Ma'am, and Madam Chair, members of the board, mine up for less than 1% in the carbon per se, on behalf of the Office of Boston residents, I want to go on record support of this project in the course of Mr. Porjeanian, and you can steam for great community outreach and working over the neighborhood. No additional brings to you, Mr. President. Thank you. Thank you. With that, Ma'am, motion? Take a motion to approve with a provisional that they provide some satisfactory evidence regarding the contribution needed for the part piece since that was not picked up in the BPA approval. May I have a second? So I second. Mr. Collins. I just interrupt for a second, Mr. Lincoln. Also, I'm assuming you want to be paid as I'm reviewing this one, correct? That's correct. It's an article 8 project. No, sorry, sorry. I'm not surprised. But yeah. Sure, you can put that. As I review, like it's an official provisional, yes. We can keep consistency and have it as a provisional. Sure. Sure. Did I have a second? Sorry. Second. Okay, thank you. Mr. Collins. Miss, are you on mute? Mr. Collins? You're on mute, sir. I don't see you. Yeah. I do see him, but he's on mute. I'll keep going. I'm juggling the phone in the drawing. I'm gonna contribute to it. But yes, I am. Yes. Okay, thank you. Mr. Panado. Yes. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Mr. Schum. Yes. Mr. Schupper. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you, everyone. You. Next case of the BOA, 140-779-8 with the address being 27-23-27 Cedar Street. Is the applicant or the representative? Hello. Yes. Good morning, Madam Chair and Members of the Board. My name is Jenner Huff from QRPETR. My office is in Rochester, Mass. I'm here to represent the owner of Cynthia Quivas and Oakland Lopez, Vanessa, and Carl Deguerre on the project at 23-25-27 Cedar Street in Madapant. The site is an existing one and a half-story three-family townhouse with two cars, two-candom park from the driveway. The applicants are proposing a third-story addition to the house as well as expanding the decks and purchase, and as well as adding six parking spaces on the lot to the rear of the building. You can go to the next slide. Here you can see the existing building to the left and to the right as the proposed. We will retain the existing first floor and basement and footprint of the building. We're remaining the same. We are adding on top of it. Another one and a half stories in the front elevation. You can see that that is consistent with the neighbors in terms of height and style. And you can see in the next slide. Thank you. That the rear of the building is because of the large dormitory. It is a three-story. And so that is going to be the same position where the existing deck is in the left picture. It's just that the decks will be expanded to the left and right so that each unit will also have their own privatized deck. So, and you can look at the next slide. Please. Thank you. Here you can see the existing units are set up so that there's split 2325 and 27. Their basement will remain the same. The first floor will also remain the same. It's an open kitchen. And dining and living room space with a bathroom. The second floor will remain pretty much the same. It was a two-bedroom. We did is add another bathroom. And then the biggest change is the third story where that would become a primary bedroom with ensuite bathroom and walking closet. The existing units before were 820 square feet two-bedroom one bath. And now the new proposed units are three bedrooms two and a half bathrooms and each unit is roughly 1200 square feet. So the design here is designed for families to live here. And you can go to the next slide. Here you can see that in the front we have individualized front porches in the front facade and small dormers on the attic floor and then the rear elevation you can see the full dormer and then the full as well as individual decks in the back. You can go to the next slide. So here, sorry we can talk about the, yes, sorry the variances we are seeking. So the existing building has a non-conforming building so that the setbacks on the front is allowed 15 feet but we have an existing five feet setback. The side yard setbacks allow 10 feet we have an existing one foot seven inch setback. The building height allowed is two and a half stories. We're posing three stories because of the the rear dormer and then the FAR allowed is 0.5 and we're proposing 0.55. We can go, we can go to the next one please. Oh the next slide, sorry. Thank you. And then this is just the plans that were submitted for ISD. So it's going to be a repeat of the information I just presented. We're open to questions. Thank you. I have any questions from the board. Can you just study landscaping, buffering and address whether there is a fair amount of paving here too, right? For the new parking. So that's a very good question. So we went through an intensive community process that started in October last year and a lot of the changes in the landscaping actually is represented here. So we have first presented actually three parking spaces, one per unit but through the neighborhood processes is a very congested street. So that's why we had added three more parking spaces. So what is going to happen is that the one in two in the front that's going to belong to unit 23. So there are tandem spots but therefore one unit. The parking for three and four is tandem unit tandem parking spaces for the middle unit 25. And then um, sorry, I think I'm sorry. I think I said the number is five and six is tandem for 23 and three and four is for 25 and one and two is for 27. And I want to add that because we had added these parking spaces and add some more pavement, that's where we're proposing permeable, um, pervious surfaces for one and two. That's closer to the rear neighbor and also for four and six. Which is closer to the rear neighbor and so those specifically will be gravel or pervious surface. They also we have added EV charger for those two parking spaces for six. There is also an additional pick driveway easement when you enter into the existing driveway. That were allowing number 29 to 31 a better to use that driveway as an easement to access their their driveway. Yeah, it just feels like an excessive amount of parking. And what about the little trees on this site? Can you address that? Yes, there is one. I'm not sure if you can see my finger on the, um, I guess I can use my mouse. Yes, if you can see my mouse, there is a large tree. That's oh, there's a large tree. I'm not sure if you can see my mouse, but in the rear where one and two is and there's also some trees that are in the back, uh, where the parking three and four is. So at the request of the rear butter, we will be removing those large trees because they're not in great condition. But instead we will be planting a buffer of trees and the rear towards the rear neighbor as well to the side towards 17 and 19. So this would be an environmental buffer as well as a privacy buffer, um, between other, the, the lots. You speak to your, the context, uh, it looks like a lot of, uh, one family's surrounding you. Could you just talk about your two family? Yes. So to the right of us is a two family townhouse. To the left of us is a two family townhouse of 29 31 17 and 19. To the front of us is a two family townhouse and then diagonally in front of us is a two family townhouse. So this is, there is a, there is a four family that is diagonally across the street behind another building and there is also, um, most of them I think are simply the single families on, but there are some two families around us. Any other questions? Any other questions? So if you look in the Google review, you will see that, um, our butter is so I guess in this view that there is two and a half, most of our neighbors actually are all two and a half stories that, uh, that are against the Cedar Street across the street as well will be two and a half story. Um, so we will be consistent in terms of high end style. Other questions from the board? Okay. Okay. Hearing none, uh, may I have public testimony? Jessica, are there raised hands? Yep. Oh, yes. Madam chair, members of the board, Connor Nielin with the Mayor's Office of the Services of this town, the Mayor's Office, like to defer to the judgment board. There was a lengthy community process with this. Uh, we heard from many of butters, um, in support and in opposition. Uh, we received 33 letters in support and 20 in opposition, including from the, uh, River Street Civic Group. Um, the Greater Mattapan, Nibbler Council, did vote to support this proposal, uh, with two provisos, uh, that during design review, the mass in front of the building, uh, be worked on and reduced as well as, um, reduction of tandem parking as well for the site. Um, there were some concerns expressed by the proponent about some community members being pressured to oppose. Um, but with that, that should cover the full testimony. We defer to the board at this time. Thank you. Thank you. You're welcome. Yes. Um, I'm here representing Councillor Brownwell. Good afternoon, Madam Chair. Members of the board. My name is I. Emme Dale. We, uh, um, from the City Council of Royal's office. Yes. In regards to 23 to 27 Cedar Street, um, the applicant did receive 32 total letters of support and, um, one from Greater, uh, Greater, uh, Lower Mills. And, um, they did receive one letter of opposition from Berger Street, seven. Um, despite all of the ad, they did actually hold three different voting sessions. So two for, um, River Street and then one for, um, Greater Lower Mills. And they did four of buttoners meetings throughout their entire process up until, um, today's date. And with that being said, the council would like to refer to the, um, discretion of the board. I'm more to me in the, uh, engagement possibly. Thank you. Michael, down here. Downward? Hi. Thank you very much. My name is Michael Dauer. I live at 10 Cedar Street, diagnosed with the property, uh, have been to, I think, all four of the meetings, um, of the Abwater meetings. And, um, universally, it's been almost, um, almost a 100% opposition for the people that actually live on Cedar Street. So when I heard the representative before say about all the support that's been given, but it's been primarily for people that don't live on the street. So you know, streets are very narrow street, uh, the parking is actually pretty dangerous on one side of the street. My cars, I live on the opposite side of the street. My car has been struck multiple times. So I have to park on the other side of the street. Parking is a huge problem here. And if you, if I have thrown some snow, it's going to be all bets are off. Um, I feel like, um, the development, but it has not listened to the people that live on the street. We've asked numerously that this, um, be converted to a, a tube, uh, unit, instead of a three, because most of the homes here are single-family homes. There's a few that are duplasses and one multi-family up the street, but it's primarily, it's not congruent with the homes that are in this area. And I say this as actually as a developer, I have, I have also a real dreaded about 10 homes myself, but it's my dad would say it's like putting 10 pounds of potatoes in a five pound bag. This house should not be a three-family house, it should be a two-family house. Okay. Sorry, we have to get to as many people as we can play on the Jefferson. Can you get to us? Can you briefly tell us appearance of our opposition? Zoom user? Dr. Request, are you looking to get to the testimony? Okay. Yes. Yes. I'm here. Okay. I'm, I'm, I'm looking at, I'm sorry. Can you state your name and name? That's three stations. William Jeffers at 45 C to 3. Okay. I ask questions. I'm looking at a, at the refusal letter, another copy of a refusal letter that's also showing violations of article nine, section one, an article 65, section 65 dash 41.5, which don't seem to be referenced on today's agenda. And I was wondering if these, these are also being voted on for relief at this time. We just have to take our testimony at this point. So we can, are you here to speak and support our opposition? Mr. Governor? Well, I'm in opposition because if it is, you know, there hasn't been a full discussion of its violation of article nine, section one, it's more than a 25% increase of an extension of a non-conforming building. And I don't believe that that has been fully discussed. And I do not support that. Okay. Thank you. Okay. Some user? Yes. Can you state your name and address for the record please and please briefly tell us if you're in support of opposition and give new information? My name is Curtis Wilson. 29 and 31 Cedar Street. Okay. Yes. And I am in full support. I think that they have took up all our concerns parking, pest control throughout the build, tenant offer to buy option, new fencing, some tree removal, some trees that other neighbors have had have busted through fences and dunes and stuff. So they're going to take care of that fence and in the trees. Nice new landscape for privacy. And any concern that pops up, they've been right there. If you have a concern or you need something done to help, you know, like I said, the privacy with the landscape, they're all on board right away once you tell them there was a lot more support in the beginning and due to some neighbors with certain opinions and strong opinions that have strove some people away from support. I think it's a great project and there are a lot of people in support. Thank you. Okay. Francine, you're sticking in with the office for the director. Hi, yes, this is Francine Dancy Carothers. I am directly in back of this. My blood pressure is up behind this. I'm going to stop with Curtis, who just got off the phone or just got offline. I live right in back of Curtis. We see each other a lot. He informed me that they would text him and excuse me, Curtis. They would text Curtis doing the meeting to take and tell Curtis what to take and set. So all that information that Curtis just took and said they text him to say that. Am I correct, Curtis? Miss Francine Dancy? Oh, wait, can you focus on your work? No, I know. I'm sorry. This focus on your work. Oh, okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. My thing is there has been over 80-something people on the meetings that are against this. This is directly in my back, y'all. Sturbridge Street is, uh, Cedar Street sits up a little higher than Sturbridge Street. So we're down like in a valley or a ditch. So within this building being Sky High, in my backyard, in all the other neighbors that are on Sturbridge Street, this is what we're taking and looking at. As, um, as the woman stated before, the design or the architect, she had said the front of it will be equal and height, but the back of it will take and be higher than everything else. So in terms of cocking six cars in the back yard, and my fence is right there, that's all of that within my back yard. There are a lot of neighbors or most of the neighbors taking sit in their back yard during the summer, during the spring, hit the kids are running around. So they have these cars all within the back yard. In addition to, it is a small back yard. I know you all have the footage and everything, but they have six cars back there. And then let's go into top and down trees. They have to do at least six trees have to be cut down in the back. And with the roots of the trees, I don't know how they're taking them. But all of that has to take and go into my yard. So as they take and do all of this, all of my backyard has to be demolished as well. Thank you. So I am. I have no idea. Okay. Thank you. What the applicant would like to respond to that before we make a motion? Yes. So in regards to one of the abutters, the support that we have, we have 33 letters of support, they're all within the 300 feet of the project, but actually 18 of those letters are from Cedar Street itself. So they're all in a lot of them actually are directed by ours. Ten letters are from one block distance and then five letters are from two blocks distance. There are no letters of support that's from three or four blocks distance. These letters of support were not acknowledged by River Street neighborhood association as part of their vote. And I for to reference, sorry to respond to Francine. So there will be trees that will be taken out that was talked about with Francine and a couple meetings. And of course, anything that is on her yard or any problems that would happen from digging up those trees that we will work with her, the owners have actually has her contact. And before they do anything, it has to be agreed with her before they actually even put in the fence they will consent with, get her consent about even the fence to make sure that everyone's aligned. Any other questions from the board? Okay, with that, yes sir. I guess I just like to overall comment that the building appears at least in renderings, so be a nice building. These don't seem to be completely out of context and a little bit concerned about the site plan with all of the asphalt. I realize a couple of the requests are for existing conditions because you're reusing the building. But I guess I just want to throw that out so that there are to fellow members of the board that will be troubled by the number of trees that are being taken down. There's been a number it looks like going to take it down over the years. That's not part of the case here now, but you know what the mitigation is for some of the landscape. And all the asphalt and parking areas and certainly some of the context of the feedback that we've heard from some of the butters, it's not quite clear. The what the levels support really is or isn't this juncture. So not offering a motion at this time, just some thoughts. Okay, so with that, I still need a motion. May I have a motion and any comments that anyone would like to include with their motion? I'm sorry. I mean just based on the comments from the abothers and my colleagues and the son-in-bord. I'm thinking about the excessive parking and I would like to propose a motion to approve the project with the provides that the parking is reduced from six parking units from six parking spots to three parking spots. A second. Mr. Collins. Yes. Sorry, maybe the 80s and very well as well. Yes, thank you. Okay, so we're motion to approve with the provider to reduce parking from six to three and BPD as I review and we have a second. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Pomado. Yes. Mr. Aiken. Oh, yes. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Shupper. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. The chair also votes yes. The motion carries. Thank you Madam Chair and Board members. Thank you. Please continue to work with your neighbors. Thank you. Next we have case BOA 1431908. The address is 74 coronavirus street. Yes. The representative. Yes. I'm here. Hey, can you introduce yourself about a country name? Not a problem. It's a good afternoon, Madam President. Madam Chair. Madam Chair, we're names of James Henry, looking for construction also found from Realty. Here representing the Corridor-Romans Street, the owners, Nama Wallace and Beware Wallace as well. This is a three-band renovation that we were doing. Nama Wallace is owned the property since 1999. It was a three-banded one-bathed unit last year, February 5th. I'm the hospital on fire, the place of three families. So what we did, we actually went through and upgraded the whole property and started the street-list system, fire alarm, and work-pritance replacement. Three-baths, two-baths, central AC and Washington dry unit. But now we're trying to install potential wear at the address in the back. It was all about increasing safety after that fire last year, the owners were ahead. Someone had got injured and they were close to the family, so they wanted to create access to get out right down into the parking. Work-peak in the side yard, in the graveyard. Space, as you can see here, you can propose. So right now we're looking for the police. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Thank you, sir. You're saying the work is done. The work's done in terms of the units, it's now just the egress. Yes, it's just the egress. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Eric, may I have public testimony? Good afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the board. Actually, folks from the Air Office and the ABRIT services are office-did hold enough orders in the beginning of March. Your budget attendance of that date with Ms. Unshared at the moment, the civic of the ABRIT United neighbors has not had a chance to vote on the project this yet. We're just going to join with that. We'll have to depart just until the board. Good time. Thank you. Mr. Councillor Rarão's office. Yes, I'm here. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. With this project, the developer was not able to appear before the local civic, which was the United Neighborhood Association. And the leader would invite them to come to their meetings come week in order to engage in the community. And maybe flush out any concerns that the neighborhood may or may not have. With that being said, the council would invite to defer to the board. Do you have another hand here? I'm Lee Wright. I'm a pink stitching name and address for the record and let us know briefly what principle our opposition. My name is Lee Wright. All this in my attic is 74th Rowan Street. That's my house. Correct. Your gentleman was broken up on that house since 1984. So I know my neighbors. I know the new neighbors. I've been there my whole life. And I've tried to get contact with Brian Warrows office for a couple of reasons. And I never get any feedback from him. Maybe I'm not qualified enough, but I've tried to get him his muscles last week. A lot of clutter of issues. This project can't go on any further because I have a 7-8-year-old mother that needs a place to live. So civic association, I mean, I know all my neighbors. And my neighbors have no problems with this. And that's on my street, on Geneva Avenue and streets, proud of all of this. Thank you, Mr. Wallace. Just going to go on any other race hangover with his madam chair. Thank you. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Yeah, I'm just trying to understand why there haven't been any meetings with the Civic Association. So we have had a number of voting street association. And that's what we were going through to come on really quick. And then at this one's understood that it was going through the best event with the bonus street. So she's here to improve it. I give this was all about safety. The biggest piece on that it wasn't about big anything, budget, having it already worth the amount of time. So it's worth the bill of the board to bring off any kind of fire, which has been the biggest thing. Yeah, so I mean, I heard a bonus street, but then there was another group that was also requested to your presence. Why haven't you met with them? Sorry, this is China. Sorry. It was just about miss happened, the overlapping of the Civic Association since there's so many and so folks in the area. But they're looking to present them this week. Repeat back. Yeah, I mean, it is a pretty minor staircase addition that's how we require. Yes, and just there is there's a lot of support from when Geneva means street and somebody else who seems to be in a butter. We do have an additional raised hand in that shop. You want to take it up or don't with testimony? Let me take it. Okay, don't break. Can you speak the name and address for the record? If you tell us if you can support opposition for the proposal. Thank you. Thank you. My name is Alexi Edwards. I actually own a home on Westville street, which in its street over. I'm definitely in favor with this particular project. If James, the contract that will leave this, leave it original size, it will be hard for first. I mean, it's to come in and get to this particular property if it's another emergency. So I applaud them to try to make this egress a little bit bigger. So first response, this is to actually get into the back, the back egress and the front egress. Easily, I've been through a fire and I know when I'm renovating again, I want to make it easy to avoid a fire or make it easy for those to come safe. Anyone in the house. So I really applaud them to try to make this this porch a little bigger, spend a little bit more money, but at the end, it's a great chance for everyone to be safe and get taken out of the house if the emergency occurs again. I only talk about for me. So I definitely applaud this and applaud a change and I agree with this. With that, is there any additional questions from the board? Okay, man, I have a motion. A motion out through design reveal. Second, thank you, Mr. College. Yes, Mr. Canada. Yes, Mr. Aiken. Yes, Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Shepard. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. The chair also votes yes. The motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Next, we have case B.O.A. 141-1057 with the address of 630 Dorchester Avenue. Is the applicant or the representative? Yes, Mr. Stembridge. Thank you. It's going to have the new Madam Chair of Embers. This is the board. My name is George Baranze. I'm an attorney for the business address of 350 West Broadway in South Boston. I represent Charles McCarthy, the owner of the property located at 630 Dorchester. Avenue in South Boston. This is an application to add a card of the level of the dwelling unit and the existing three family dwelling. The La Tse 2007-09 square feet in the zoning is an L1 local business district under the 1964 base code. This is not Article 68, South Boston. The most relevant plan sheets here are page C01, which includes renderings. The floor plan of the unit in question, which is page A01 and then the building cross sections, which are at A06 and A07. The lower level of this building had been previously built out. It was occupied by a commercial business. It was like we've seen stress and chop most recently. In the property was actually assessed for a period of time as a mixed use residential commercial property. My client purchased the building and considered implementing unit 1 by level units. But in that case, there would have been potentially at least six bedrooms in such a unit. The proposed new unit by contrast would be 1,211 square foot pretty bedroom unit. This is shown on sheet A01. This is not a proposed basement unit and is not been cited as such by ISD because the unit is at least 50% at or above grade and it is a full walk out in the rear. Also, the building is not located within a flood hazard area nor within a coastal flood resilience overlay district. The floor is ceiling height in the unit ranges from 8 to 9 feet. With respect to the requested zoning relief, a variance is thought for insufficient water area for the additional dwelling unit. As I mentioned, this site is governed by the base code, not article 68. The old code requires a minimum 5,000 square foot bath or only one unit or units that would require 8,000 square foot wide. The size of this one, as I mentioned, is just over 2,000 square feet which makes the variance necessary. Code also requires 400 square feet of usable open space for the new unit. But there is no way to create open space on the lots and there is already a building here. The only way to do that would be to add a roof deck and my client elected not to pose a roof deck, given neighborhoods and activities on that subject. There is no way to add parking to the site, of course, so there is a zoning violation and relief requested for insufficient off-street parking. But I would point out that the building is located just across the Andrew Square from the MBTA's Andrew Station. Finally, there is a violation for excessive floor area ratio. The maximum FAR here is 1. What is being proposed is 2.5. Would that all pause and take any questions that members may have? King Mr. Rancy, any questions from the board? I have a question in the fact that the notes from the BPD indicated that this is in the coastal flood resiliency, but I believe returning where NC said it's not, is that what I heard? Frankly, yes, that's what I believe it is not. I am referencing the zoning refusal. Even if it were, it is not subject to Article 26 and it's not an Article 80 small project. It wouldn't be subject to the requirements of C for even if it were. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Okay, here in 9 May, Public testimony. I yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor Newman with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. At the sign of the Mayor's Office, I would like to defer to the judgment of this board. I have some background information in the committee process. Our office held in butters meeting in early March. There was one water in attendance who expressed concerns about the lack of parking proposed with the proposal. But the outcome explained that the previous use for this area was a tailor, which also led to an increasing number of vehicles coming in and out of the square. Other members that were on for the butters meeting were in support of the proposal. They eventually went on to meet with the Andrew Square Civic Group, which did not express any concerns. We also received several letters of support, which I believe have been forward to the board, as well as petitioning in support with signatures from the abiot butters. Without me defer to the board at this time. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, John McGeckron, City Councilor Frank Baker's office, who led to board recognition support. Madam Chair, members of the board, all solvents, the Councilor Rajma Gaflary, Councilor Domeradian, and support. Interests, please. Good afternoon, Madam Chair. And ZBAPDA members, my name is John Piccotosi, lifelong resident, small business owner in Andrew Square. Also, I serve as ASCA Development Committee Chair. I would like to thank Mr. Piccotosi for his engagement with the community process in addressing any quality or life concerns that the proposal may bring. There's our opinion that the requested relief will have no negative impact on the surrounding area. We are in full support. Thank you. And I have no additional basins. Thank you. With that, we have a motion. Make a motion to approve with the EPA design review. Has that requested it? They did. Second. Second. Second. Second. Mr. College. Are you on mute again? Yes, you are. All right, Mr. College. Yes. Ms. Canado. Yes. Mr. Haken. Yes. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Shepard. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Chair also votes. Yes. Motion carries. All right. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Madam Chair. You're welcome. I didn't manage to just for the record. I want to correct my doubts. Moe, this is within the seat, for right. I put this into chat. It is not subject to seat cards. So I apologize for the misstatement. Thank you. No, no worries. Thank you. Last case before break, Mr. Stembridge. So let's get right to it. Do you know what? Do you know what? One, four, three, five, four, nine, six? The address is 489, 489, eight East Broadway is the applicant for the representative. Is Mr. Wash present? No, sorry, we have a few more scenes here. Robin and Matt, you guys here for this proposal? That's a request from you. Correct. Okay. All the view? Yes. Okay. Wonderful. Let me just, I'm going to make your panelists which will mute you for a second. Then you can unmute yourself and then state your name and what you're looking to do. I can you hear us? Yes. Hi, I'm Matt and Chairman, members of the board. Thanks for hearing us today. My name is Matt Doolock here with Candace Hiddens. For Gilles, we are, you're traveling right now so we are in the car. We represent the owners at 49 East Broadway, like Street Coffee. We have three other locations in Boston, two in Beacon Hill, and one on Hoyleston. We are looking to create a cafe here with Tegosoo and coffee. We have a fairly simple build out. We are seen from the drive's edge. We're looking to put in BT seats. Majority list is to go traffic. We'll put in an ABA restroom. We have full pass control. We have garbage pickups throughout the week. Yeah, so they said operating 75, no food prepared on site, just identical operations to the existing three. Local members use where possible and as Matt stated, trash pickups is all stored inside until pickup overnight. Sorry. What's there now? Right now it was a it was a jewelry shop so it was commercial and turned over into a middle-state office. Got it. Thank you. Okay. Any other questions from the board? Okay, hearing none, may I have a moment to ask the audience? Yes, Madam Chair and Members of the Board, Connor Newman with the Mayor's Office, Neighborhood Services. This time the Mayor's office looks to defer to the judgment of this board. Some background information in the community process. Our office had the applicant flyer to a butters within 300 feet. We did receive word from one a butting business owner who expressed opposition due to concerns with trash, double parking from people using takeout as well as concerns that work might have done been done on the site ahead of time. Beyond that, we did not hear from many other residents. The applicant did go on to meet with the gate of having neighborhood association which I understand the gate of having offered their full support with the project without me defer to the board. Thank you. Thank you. I have to go for the members of the board on a call that I'm from Council President Flink's office. The councilor would like to go and break our in support based on our community process. We respectfully ask that the proponent continues to work closely with neighbors on any quality of life issues. Thank you. I have no additional vacients. Thank you. With that may I have a motion? Motion to approve. May I have a second? Second. Thank you, Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Pumato. Yes, Mr. Aiken. Yes. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Scherker. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Let's take a 15-minute break. Thank you. Thank you, Madam Chair. Members of the board, thank you. Thank you, Mark.