 you you you good morning The only board of appeal hearing for September 23rd, 2025 is now in session. This hearing is being conducted in accordance with the applicable provisions of the open meeting law, including the updated provisions enacted by the legislature this year. The new law allows the board to continue its practice of holding virtual hearings through June 2027. This hearing of the board is being held remotely via the Zoom webinar event platform and is also being live streamed. In order to ensure this hearing of the board is open to the public, members of the public may access this hearing through telephone and video conferencing. The information for connecting to this hearing is listed on today's hearing agenda, which is posted on the public notices page of the city's website, Boston.gov. Members of the public will enter the virtual hearing as attendees, which means you will not see yourself on the screen and you will be muted throughout unless administratively unmuted when asked to comment. The board members, applicants and their attorneys or representatives will participate in the hearing as panelists and they will appear alongside the presentation materials when speaking. Pallas are strongly encouraged to keep video on while presenting to the board. If you wish to comment on an appeal, please click the raise hand button along the bottom of your screen in the Zoom webinar platform. The information for the board members of the public is also included in the presentation materials and the presentation materials are included in the presentation materials. If you want to comment on an appeal, please click the raise hand button on the bottom of your screen and your hand should go down. When the host sees your hand, you will receive a request to unmute yourself, select yes and you should be able to talk. In the interest of time and to ensure that you have enough time to do so, please raise your hand as soon as Mr. Stembridge reads the address into the record. Do not raise your hand before the relevant address is called whether meeting hosts will not know to call on you at the appropriate time. Mr. Stembridge. Good morning Madam Chair. Good morning. Mr. Valencia. Good morning, Madam Chair. Present. Good morning. Ms. Wewell. Good morning, Madam Chair. Present. Good morning, Mr. Lennon. Good morning, Madam Chair. Present. Good morning, Mr. Collins. Good morning, Madam Chair. Present. Good morning, Ms. Monado. Good morning, Madam Chair. Present. Good morning. The floor is yours, Mr. Stembridge. Thank you, Madam Chair. We'll begin today with the approval of the hearing men's, getting up from 930. And then through it from September 9th of this year, I'll make a motion that we accept accepting men's. May I have a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Wewell. Yes. Good morning. Good morning, Madam Chair. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Panado. Yes. Mr. Moron. Chair, motion carries. Next, we have the extension schedule for 930. There are six cases this morning, they all appear to be reasonable. I'll read them and then make a motion, take a vote on. First, we have case, BWA, 102. 717 with the address of 259.6 street. Next we have case BRA, 948, 370 with the address of 768 to 772 Tremont Street. Next we have case BRA, 146, 2119 with the address of 1742 to 1748, which is the RAPNU. Next we have case BRA, 874, 954 with the address of 303 to 305 Bayton Street. Next we have case BRA, 148, 622, with the address of 20 key Clifton Street and finally for the extension of the RAPNU, 108150, 1503 with the address of 30 Clifton Street. Those are the extensions for today. If you have any questions, you can direct them to the madam chair. Thank you. If there are no questions on the board, we have a motion to grant the extensions as requested. I make a motion to grant the extensions as requested. Is there a second? Can't they come? Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Wu-Low. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Ms. Panado. Yes. Chair votes yes, the motion carries. Next we have two groundwater conservation overlay district cases scheduled for 9.30 AM. But first is case BRA, 173, 1788, with the address of 1058 to 107 Beach Street. If the applicant can do it, they represent a book president. Would they please apply to the board? Good morning, everyone. This is Tullet Sima from Balanced Architects. And on the architect for the project, that will answer any questions about the building. It's an existing five story commercial building with the intent to convert the top two floors into residential units, total of six units. So three units are floor. We are in a G-Card district. And as such, we are making a groundwater infiltration chamber in the basement for the project. That should have been with the application, the design of that. The basement floor, site and floor, first floor and third floor are not being touched at the building owner, which is the language studies international. He is currently on, in the entire building, they'll be scaling down their operations to just remain on the second and third floor, while those fourth and fifth floors are converted to residential units. Any questions from the board? May I have a motion? Oh, sorry, Mr. Saminelli. Yes, Madam Chair, good morning. Members of the board, Christian Saminelli, Boston groundwater Trust, and we have both G-Card letters from the applicant. Thank you. Thank you. May I have a motion? Make a motion. Please prove. Mr. Second. Second? Got it. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valenzier. Yes. Ms. Weewell. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Ms. Connato. Yes. Chair votes, yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Second G-Card case, it's case of BOA. 1, 7, 5, 3, 9, 7, 6. With the address of 12 post office square, if the applicant and or their representative are present, would they please explain it to the board? Yes. Thank you, Mr. Stembridge. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is George Morancy, and I train with the business address of 350 West Broadway and South Boston. This is an application under the mayor's office to residential conversion program. It is an article 80 matter with respect to two joining six story buildings located at 12 post office square, and 10 Liberty Square, and conversion of those buildings from their present occupancies based on the ground floor retail and commercial uses and double story offices to basement and ground floor retail and commercial uses with 70 new dwelling units on floors two through six, with approximately 2000 square feet of residential amenities space. Of the 70 residential units, 55 will be studios, 15 will be one bedroom units. There will be 12 inclusionary zoning, IZ affordable units, offered at 60%. AMI, this matter was approved by the BBDA Board of Directors on June 12, 2025, and I believe Mr. Simonelli will testify that he has both required letters. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Mr. Simonelli? Madam Chairman, this is the board, Christian Simonelli, Boston, Royal Trust, and we do have both the key card letters from the applicant. Thank you. Would that be a half of a motion? A motion to approve. Their second? Second. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Ms. Wu-Wol? Yes. Mr. Langham? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Ms. Conato? Yes. Chair votes, yes. Motion carries. Thank you. Good luck. Next, we have two building code cases, skip for 9.30 AM. The first is case B-O-A, 1.763157 with the address of 94 Park Vernon Street. The applicant's the end of the represent on the present. They've clearly played the case in the board. I still have those documents of ID communication room. Hi. Are there any White between me and Allen? I'm sorry. Let me see if it's Taylor Burns- Hello? Yeah, John Moore. Yes. Can you hear me now? Yes we can. Sorry. Good morning Madam Chair, John Moran, Alpine Advisory Services with the mailing address of 130 Beach Road Orleans. We are here today to seek a variance from the building code requirement that access to the proposed roof deck be provided by a penthouse. The property is located within the historic Beacon Hill landmarks district. The appellan seeks to construct a roof deck which has been cut into the roof recessed. And as designed as a matter of right under the zoning code permitted, and if egress is required by a penthouse, the deck assembly would require a variance which would alter the roof and street profile in the historic district. Appellan went through a very rigorous multi-meeting landmarks process resulting in redesigning the proposed roof deck by recessing it to minimize its visibility. As designed, it is not visible from Mount Vernon Street. And there is a long vista view from Pintney Street. It is clear from proceedings before the landmarks that landmarks would not approve a headhouse thus denying the reasonable use and occupancy of the building. The approval of roof hatch access is a common means of approved access to roof decks throughout the city. Locust is accredited as being of historic significance by the Secretary of Interior, the Massachusetts Historic Commission in Boston landmarks. Hatch accessibility would be a compliance alternative under section 3412. The renovated building is fully sprinkled. No hazard to the occupants of the building would be presented by granting of the variance. The building would remain totally within all firefighting equipment and safety vehicles. All construction material conformed to new construction standards for the above reasons. Appellan respectfully requests the variance. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? Hearing none, is there public testimony? No, we don't have any answering of the moment. Okay, may I have a motion? Make a motion to approve. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Stambridge. Yeah. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Ms. We will. Yes. Mr. Langham? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Ms. Panato? Yes. Chair votes. Yes, the motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Next, we have case B-O-A, 173-1962 with the address of 79 applicants in the street. It's the applicant and or their representable president. Would they put his plans in the board? Yes, hello, it's Marcus Springer. Springer architects, 46-Walltham Street, courtyard one, Boston Mass, 02118. The variance we are seeking is to allow access to roof deck through an existing hatch and area way. The roof deck existed since 1986. You can see here on the plot plan. The previous owner removed the roof deck to replace the roof and did not reinstate the roof deck. The new owner seeks to reinstate the roof deck in its previous position. We had meeting with landmarks and on site as well as virtually and they have given us a certificate of approval. The you can see the existing hatch there on the plan we would like to use. That's it. Questions from the board? Here in the bottom. The down motion? Motion to approval. There's second. Second. Mr. Stambridge. Yeah. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Ms. Weewell? Yes. Mr. Langem. Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Ms. Panato? Yes. Chair votes. Yes. The motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Next we go through the recommendations. Here's 9.30 a.m. There are recent subcommittee meeting. There are nine cases that were heard. All were approved. I'll go through them. If there's any questions you can ask. Madam Chair at the end and then we'll run from there. First is case B.O.A. 173.3263 with the address of eight all-dirt street. Case was approved with the proposal that the planning department review for balcony and rooftop. Root of death. Next we have case B.O.A. 174.895 with the address of 16 chestnut street which was approved with planning department design. Next we have case B.O.A. 17088. 171 with the address of 23 to 29 school street towards approved. Case B.O.A. 175980 with the address of 120 to 126 Emerson street which was approved. Case B.O.A. 175.9560 with the address of 1621 to 1631 to 11 was approved. Case B.O.A. 169. 623 with the address of 417 to 423. Case B.O.A. 174.4521 with the address of eight grand field Avenue was approved. Case B.O.A. 170870 with the address of 109 with the address of 458 or else street was approved. Those would be recommended. Dation from staff committee. Any questions from the board? Here none may have a motion. Motion to approve the recommendation from the staff committee. Is there a second? Mr. Stembridge? Yeah. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Ms. Wewell? Yes. Mr. Langham? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. It's Fernando? Yes. Chair votes yes. The motion carries. Next we'll move on to the hearing schedule for 9.30 a.m. At this time we'll ask if there are any requests for withdrawals or the froze from 9 to a year. Good morning members of the Grom and Emisie Lingrosa from Rosadisana construction. We're here to request a deferral from 122. What app? So there are two companion cases with that. The first is case BOA 169. 0859 with the address of 122 would have them. Along with that we have case BOA 169. 861 also with the address of 122 would have them. Would you please explain to the board? Yes. We are currently reviewing the site map to potentially propose parking spaces within the property. How much time do you think you need? We haven't. When the process of reviewing the property now so if you could I'm not quite sure when is the next hearing? I'm repeating. Not an 18. 18. I'm sorry. And do you have the next available here? That would be a one in November 18. I believe that's going to work. Okay. Would that may have a motion? Motion to defer to November 18. Is there a second? Back in. Mr. Stembridge. Yeah. Mr. Blensio. Yes. Miss Lee Woh. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Miss Canado. Yes. Chair votes yes. The motion carries. Thank you. Next. Hi. Ms. Mingus. Hi. Please have a slate. I'm a good morning. Madam Chair and members of the board. I am referring to 12 parking. I have any on the high part. We would like to request a motion. Thank you. Next. Hi. Ms. Mingus. Hi. We are referring to 12 parking. I have any on the high part. We would like to request a referral for an next meeting in November 18. So that would be for case BOA. 170. 97. 3. Yes. With the address of 12 programs happening. Yes. And you are requesting a deferral until. The next meeting. Thank you. I will talk about that. The last one. Actually we have a note that there will be. There will be. You know, the title. I have to be. We have ties. It could be heard on October 20th. Yes. Yes. Okay. So with that, I'll make a motion that we defer until. With this. So this case. So October 20th. Is there a second? Second. Okay. Mr. Stembridge. Yeah. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Wu-Wu. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Conato. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. The motion carries. Thank you. I'm not sure if someone here for the next case, but. We've been notified that. It has been re-advertised. I'm thinking so there will be deferred. And now we'll be for case B.O.A. 1709737. What the end? Okay. So we took care of that already. During the more request, what withdrawals of the trolls. Next, we have case B.O.A. 1701. Oh, one, one, three, one, zero. With the address of 131, the positive valid partway. Yes. The applicant's android. They represent a present. Would they please explain to the board? Okay. Good morning, now. My name is Joseph Luna. I'm the principal of Luna Design Group, architects. We are representing the owner of this project. I went to first start. This is not the first time that you have seen this project. The project was approved in 2022 on the. Good to July prior B.O.A. Number one, two, eight, five, eight, five, one. Where it was granted variances for the use, which is a two F zone and we are putting four units here. And it was granted really important sufficient open space per unit. The owner of that project had basically transferred the development rights over to the new developer. And we are proposing essentially the same thing, but we have two modifications. The required height for the building in terms of, in terms of stories is two and a half. The maximum height is 35 feet. It is our intention to take that half story and use it into a full story for the addition of two more bedrooms. The original proposal, the original proposal had four two bedroom units. Our intention is to have four units on the exact same footprint within the maximum 35 high requirements, but we are putting three unit three bedrooms on the ground floor units. And then the upper two floors will be turned into four unit bedrooms. Yeah, four bedroom units, excuse me. Maximizing the volume of space inside that half story, converting that into a full door. And you can see here, this is now the third floor. Again, we have not changed the footprint or the number of units or exceeded the height requirements. We did change the architecture of the building, and we worked at a very style building, which we feel is more in contact with the developer once to bring to this project in terms of a new development team. So we are asking for relief for the original two on the open space and the forbidden use, but also looking for zoning relief for the increase in the FAR of the floor, and going from an allowable two and a half stories to three stories. Be happy to answer any questions on the board. Thank you. Are there any questions from the board? Hearing none, may I apologize for the testimony? Madam Chair and members of the board for the record. My name is Jeremy Benbury, and the high-pork community team, engagement specialist for the Office of Neighborhood Services. The applicant has completed the community process, which consisted of a new button, is reading facilitation on June 25th, very lightly attended with only one button, and two civic leaders and attendants. During the meeting, no stances were voiced, and all inquiries were addressed satisfactorily during the meeting. Next, the proposed was presented to read the WAPC's civic association where they voted on support of the proposal. Our office didn't proceed one letter of concern for the appearance of the building and being out of character for the neighborhood. Thank you for your time and the mayor's office of neighborhood services who liked to defer to the board, but they're judgment. Thank you. Madam Chair, there are no additional comments. That may have a motion. I'm going to have a vote. There's second. Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Wu-Woe. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Monado. Yes. Chair votes yes. The motion carries. Good luck. Thank you very much. Next, we have case B-O-A. The motion carries. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. I'm the Madam Pan Community Engagement Festlists for the Office of Neighborhood Services. The applicant asked me to complete the community process which consists of an embroidered meeting facilitated on June 25th, although lightly attended many of the brothers' voice support for the proposal and the family remaining in the neighborhood. Directed brothers who are also supporters, also voice they do not have a parking issue or concern on the street parking, citing the refusal of the violation of the parking. Next, the proposals presented to the Franklin South Neighborhood Association were they voted in opposition to the proposal. Thank you for your time in the mayor's office of neighborhood services. We'd like to approach the board with it, Jeff. Mr. Bembery, do you have insight as to why there was the opposition? I believe I do have access to that, ma'am. In the meantime, any other raise stands? I think Mary Lang, I'm not sure if you want to speak on behalf of this project. This is your opportunity. It's for 122 Wood Avenue. That has been deferred until November 18th. Oh, we didn't get that notice. That happened this morning. Mr. Bembery? Yes, ma'am. I apologize for the delay. So it appears that during the meeting a few of others, a few guests did voice support, but the neighborhood association did not support it. The nature of their opposition was not allowed. Okay. Any other questions from the board? Hearing none, may I have a motion? May the motion do approve. Is there a second? No, second, that. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Wewell. Yes. Mr. Lang, Mr. Collins. Yes. Ms. Panado. Yes. Chair votes, yes. The motion carries. Good luck, sir. Thank you. Next, we have case B.O.A. 1753091 with the address of 2 to 8 Oren Street. If the applicant and or their representative or brother, will they please the funds of the board? Yes, Mr. Stembridge. Good morning, ma'am. Mr. Bauer, the 20 Derek Small. I'm a business address of 51 Dobson Road. And with me today is the owner of the site, Mr. Gary Webster Sr. and our architects are from Stacking Co. Our country, our Julian, Jamf Fuguer and Colin Booth. Today we are here to seek and relieve for our mixed use development project consisting of really two residential units and commercial space on the first floor. Currently the site is occupied by Mr. Webster's restaurant, Down Home Delivery and catering, which will remain as the ground floor tenant in this proposal. The zoning center district here is local convenience and we are cited by ISD for a couple of violations. The FAR, the required FAR is one. We are proposing six. The building height. The building height requirement in this zoning center district is 40 feet and we are proposing 69. We have a real yard violation which is pre-existing not conforming. And the restaurant use in this zoning center district is forbidden use. And again, that is also pre-existing not conforming. I will turn it over to Katri El, a Julian who can go through the deck and give you guys a better understanding of what is going on at the site. Katri El? Yes. Good morning Madam Chair and Members of the Board. My name is Katri El Tulian. I am a principal in order of stock architecture, the architects of this project. This is a 22 unit residential project mixed use with restaurant component on the ground floor. As Derek mentioned, we are seeking, you know, rear yard setback, relief, as well as height, open space. The building is currently seven stories. It is a lower rise building with a height of 69 feet. It has a roof deck component. It occupies the interior of the site. It has no parking proposed on the site currently. I am sorry I want to talk about the units. We have 22 units, four of which are affordable. We have five one bedroom units, ten one bedroom plus ten units, six two bedroom units and one three bedroom units. We have 22 units. I think that is it. Is there any question from the board regarding the project? Thank you. Any questions from the board? I have a question. I appreciate that I see some of the affordable units at 60% or 60% of the units are in a lower AMI. Do you also have vouchers from the New York office of housing to have you receive vouchers? No, we have them. We can work with the demobliction on that. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? I have a quick one. I think I might have this one. What is the name of that restaurant again? Down home delivery and catering. It is on the site. It is on the site. It will remain. Okay. Thank you. That may I have public testimony? Yes Madam Chair and members of the board. The staff members of the board. The staff members of the board. The staff members of the board. The staff members of the board. The staff members of the board. The staff members of the board. The staff members of the board. The staff members of the board. The staff members of the board. The staff members of the board. The staff members of the board. The staff members of the board. The staff members of the board. The staff members of the board. The staff members of the board. The staff members of the board. The staff members of the board. The staff members of the board. The staff members of the board. The staff members of the board. The staff members of the board. The staff members of the board. The staff members of the board. The staff members of the board. Thank you Madam Chair and members of the board. Timothy Gimon from District 4 City Councilor Brian Weryl's office. We just would like to go on the record and support of this project. We would also like to thank the team for considering adding the three the three bedroom unit. The councilor is very much for making sure that our families are able to say and thrive in the city. So we're happy to see that addition. So with that, the councilor is happy to support. And we also spoke with the Mount Bowen Betterment Association that also expressed their support. So thank you very much. Thank you. Next we have the Quint Bouchie. Thank you Madam Chair and members of the board. Quint Valsich from the Boston Planning Department. It's here to echo Conner's statement confirm the project did. It's a guestly go through the Art of Lady e Small Project Review. The public meeting and strong showing of support through. That means that meeting and submitted letters. The project also received the PDA for approval in February 13th, 2025. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Finally, we have a four corners main street. Good morning everybody. I hope you've been here. My name is Mark. I was a billeture with four corners main streets. And I'm here to express our support for this project. The what's your family has been a long standing investor and a part of our community. And I believe that this project itself is critical for the development of our area. It stands to catalyze much more investment, including some that has already happened right across the street. We support this. And again, as it's been stated before, there was a long community process where Gary and his family engaged various stakeholders across the neighborhood. Not simply the Abadi neighborhood association. So we very much appreciate your support for this project. Thank you. Thank you. My name is Chenyar Nore Deschmann. Any other questions from the board? May I have a motion? Motion to a motion? There's second. Second. Mr. Stembridge? Yeah. Mr. Ronser? Yes. Ms. Wu-Woe? Yes. Mr. Langham? Yes. Mr. Collins? Sorry, yes. Mr. Panato? Yes. Chair Ronser, yes. The motion carries. Thank you Madam Chair. Members of the board, have a good day. Thank you Madam Chair. Thank you for the morning. Thank you. Next, we have case B.O.A. 172-1785 with the address of 396 Park Street. It's the applicant and or their representative of the program. Would they please spot the case in the board? Hello. My name is Ronser, Madam Chair and members of the board. So with this project here, currently the building, as it stands, from the drawings you could tell that the building is a little old and currently is being used as a mosque and it is legally an assembly over there. And what we are seeking to do is to be able to modify it a little bit because the space is for, yes, right there. When you see the dotted line of blue line, that is the existing building and we are trying to expand it a little bit because we have room to be able to do that. And that definitely triggers article 96 section 09 and that, validatively, is assess square footage area and then assess in sufficient sight and front yards. And so we are here to appeal to the board to get an easement to be able to be able to build this and or to add onto this building and bring it up to code. Currently, I'm not everything that is in the building up to ice up to code. So what we are here to do is to seek a variance and be able to bring the entire building up to code and add a little bit more of space to that activities of the mosque. If I could go to where the sight plot plan is, I would be able to explain quite a bit on how. If I could get to the plot plan. Yeah, right there. So this here is the building and then to the right is where the driveway is. We are seeking to just go about eight feet and carry all the way to the back and then from the backside of the building, 20 feet and that still gives us from the building to the back of the property line close to about 80 feet of space and we come. We do some calculations based on their occupancy loom that is currently there. We should have enough sufficient parking and on the street as well. Questions from the board? Hearing none, may I publicize the morning? Madam Chair and members of the board for the record, my name is Jarry B. Bembroy. I'm the Madapet and Community Engagement Specialist for the Office of Neighborhood Services. The applicant has completed the community process which consisted of an approach to making facilitation on June 24th that was likely attended with full and attendance concerned for various regarding the occupancy, the size of the proposed and parking concerns. A Buddhist felt constituents from outside of the neighborhood were driving and increasingly already congested area with only a few parking spaces proposed the streets would be crowded. One of the dig voice opposition for the proposed are maintaining the aforementioned concerns. Following the abrupt is meeting no further community process was required and the proposal was approved and moved forward. To date our office has not received any further community feedback. Thank you for your time and the members of the neighborhood services were like to defer the board with their judgment. Next we have a team. Vita. Thank you Madam Chair and members of the board, Timothy Gimond from District 4 City Council Brian Wurl's office. We would like to go on record and support this project. Places of worship are extremely valuable assets to the community and it would be wonderful to see this building refurbished so with that happy to support. Madam Chair, there are no additional comments. That may I have a motion? Madam Chair, I may come as soon as I have a vote. Okay. Madam Secretary. Okay. Mr. Stonebridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Wewell. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Panado. Yes. Mr. Panado. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. The motion carries. Good luck. Thank you very much. I'm the subject board. Next we have case B.O.A. 171-5853 with the address of 23 Shaftar Street. It's the Allen Kent end when they represent the present that please the phone case to the board. Madam Chair, I'm Board Member of the Senate, and the House, and for the architect that you architecture the office is located at 53 H. Harvard Street in Rochester. I am here this evening to represent the owner of 7Gram and the farming ground. They have lived and owned it to family next door at 25 Shaftar for 35 years. They hope to build new development at 23 Shaftar so they can move into the first floor unit in 18th place. I'll leave the document to the guy's class for you today. On the first page you can see that this site is an empty lot that being used as a garden space for by the owners currently and it is 3,021s for a piece. It's approximately 3,440 feet. The owner has lived in this garden space for 36 years. The lot isn't a 2S-5000 zone. The housing on the block is comprised of both single families and two families. The accounting properties number 21 and 25 is a three family and the two families. We feel that the post to family fits well in this neighboring contact. Here is the proposed building on the lot, and I will talk more of the design where the shaded area is the massing of the proposed building. You can see the massing of the proposed two families similar. The scale for 21 and 25 next door. And there is two parking spaces in the rear. That's the, yes, so you can see the driveway is existing and there is two co-packs of spaces in the rear. The door, you can go to the next page. Yes, the Zoli dances of what we're asking for. I can answer questions if there's any further page. We have the site plan now. We will retain the existing Zoli's ashes of clothing to the parking spaces and they will also be a handicap list for the owner's situation. The post forage as well as the rear desecrated there. The next page will show that the first floor and the basement make up unit 1, which is the owner's unit. One will host three bedrooms and three bathrooms, averaging 1800 square feet. The second floor and the second floor make up unit 2. The unit 2 holds four bedrooms and three bathrooms, averaging 2030, that an end-gram or really caring for the city's family owned unit. The owner took a lot of care and they can share the site as large bedrooms and off spaces. On the next page, on the foundation, we designed a traditional gable facade, but the owner has to resemble the neighboring two and a half-story floor. The unit will feature flat endbed porch, additionally the owner will continue to maintain the parking area, keeping to ensure an attractive and solid labor-like aesthetic. That's the end of the presentation. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? Can you tell us the dimensions of those parking spaces and address the planning departments concerning how to remove our ability? Yes. So they are at 9 feet by 2 feet. And so the owner owns the 25th floor and they actually drive in basically assault trees based on that size. So in terms of the usability, they can actually be able to drive in and drive out using only very lot. And so it maybe takes another turn out. So instead of like a perfect coming in and 90 degree turning out, you have to kind of do a three point type of turn to get out. And it's just because it's pretty tight in the back. There's not really another way that I'm just back out. They have the back out, back front and back out one more time to get out. Are there questions from the board here in 9 Man Public testimony? Madam Chair and members of the board for the record, my name is Jeremy Bembery. I am the George Chester Community Engageant Specialist for the Office of Neighborhood Services. The applicant asked me to do the community process which consisted of an abutus meeting facilitated on May 27th with noabudas and attendants. The proposal moved forward and presented to Harvard, Washington, noabut, neighborhood association and June where no vote was taken and the proposal was approved to move forward in the process. To date, our office has received one letter of opposition from an abutus as opposed to construction and the noise of construction as well as added traffic. Thank you for your time in the mayor's office of neighborhood services. We'd like to defer to the board for the judge. Next, we have team, Gidman, please. Thank you, Madam Chair and members of the board. Timothy Gimman from District 4 City Councilor Brian Morelle's office. The councilor would like to go on record in support of this project. We did meet with the leadership of the Harvard Washington Norwell Association. They just confirmed that they did not have enough members to get to a quorum at their meeting. But there was not too many major concerns and other residents of Shafedra Street have also expressed their non-opposition. So with that, we're happy to support. Thank you. Okay, Madam Chair, there are no additional comments. Would that have been a motion? A motion to approve with the planning department again. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. We will. Yes. Mr. Langen. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Canado. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. The motion carries. Thank you, Madam Chair and members. Have a great day. Next, we have case B.O.A. 176184. Would the address of 413-419, Sharma Avenue? Is the app grand end or is it representative or present? Would they please explain the case to the board? Good morning, Madam Chairperson and the board. My name is the Reverend Edward Tess and the police in charge at Seen Stevens at physical church. And we are here this morning, petitioning for a change of use of 4 St. Stevens Church in Parish Hall, which is hurtly zoned as a church. We're asking for the property to be allowed to operate as a center for youth education and community center. St. Stevens is located at the corner of Sharma and San Juan across the street from Blackstone Park, which you can see in this picture. All rooms at 419 are equipped with updated fire detection equipment. And there are two more cases of egress at the front and the back of the building. Since Seen Stevens Youth Program operates an after-school youth program for children ages 6 to 18, from the year 6, from Monday to Friday September June, observing this encounter as the Boston School System. Additionally, the youth program offers a summer enrichment program July through August five days a week from 8.30 to 3. We serve approximately 50 children with 90% of the children arriving by foot or by school bus each afternoon. And then each afternoon our staff walks to the Blackstone School and the Hurley School to escort the children to the church. The Blackstone School is located 1 miles away from the Seen Stevens and the Hurley School. We have a system that allows for the children to be taken to the parents cars to minimize the amount of cars in the front of the building. We provide a meal for the kids at 3pm and then offer assistance with homework, routine students, which are art, self-care, safety, etc. And that's a weird. Thank you. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? Hearing none, may I have public testimony? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor Newman with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. We think this is a fantastic proposal. We would like to request the shortest possible deferral possible. We do not get to run a community process on this project. Priorly given the temperance of Kinabat and Seabach in the summer of 2024, but there has not been a recent community process for this. So we don't envision any negative impacts in the neighborhood, but we would like to just have things be done correctly, procedural wise. So with that, thank you. Mayor Madam Chair and members of the board, my name is Melissa Lone. I would be speaking on behalf of Councilor Flynn. Please new Councilor Flynn sent a support letter to the board this morning on students application for a change of occupancy to church and community center slash after school program and then start a kitchen exhaust system. These students offer support from neighbors to the youth programming and providing a gathering space for parishioners and the community. This particular screen has served a safe and neighborhood for years and the change of occupancy would allow for an expansion of formal programming and meet licensing requirements. Thank you very much. You are. Okay. Thank you. Next we have Andrew's Johnson. Good morning, Madam Chair and members of the board. My name is Indis Johnson from Outlarge City Councilor Henry Santana's office. The council related the law and record in support of this proposal. This space is long served as a vital hub for neighborhood gatherings and youth programs and formalizing its status will enable expanded services that benefit our community, especially our youth. This change of occupancy will foster greater community engagement and support for residents of all ages. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Thank you. We have Maria Lominguez. Hi, members of the board. My name is Maria Lominguez. I'm on the board of Saint Stevens youth programs and church. I'm also a long time community activist and the executive director of the Phillips Brooks House Association which provides programming, youth programming across the city of Boston. My children have also participated in the program and my family has been a member of the parish for over 50 years. I am on behalf of all of those folks asking the board to consider this resumming. Saint Stevens I know both a professional and personal point of view has really served a factor as a community center for everybody, for so many years. We're really excited to take our program into the next level and have more formal occupancy so we can continue to expand and look at licensing for our summer and school year programs. Thank you for consideration. Thank you. Okay, without, we don't have additional hands raised at the moment. Any other questions from the board? Sorry, ma'am. I add to that. Julia, I make counsel. Julia, I have also center weather of support. See you, bye. All right. I think there's one person. Reese. Okay. Last hand. So, yeah. Good morning, Madam Chair and members of the board. My name is Lillory Skardner from 429. I'm Sharmadav. I've been a neighbor of Saint Stevens for 30 years and about 20 years ago I discovered that my dad's grandfather had helped up to England to build the little church. I am delighted with the work that Saint Stevens carries on, especially during this time when the South End has lost tons of social service programs. This is an unusual 1920s Italian 8-Bowell-Valted little church that was built by the community. In respect of the building around it and it's amazing what the church is doing with the space available along honored history of so many social programs, including the food pantry and keeping so many families safe during the COVID with support, educationally, socially, emotionally. As a former foster parent, I have benefited. I came to be a member of the congregation and I think it's great that this church is maximizing the available space that's been under use for decades and has done so much to make it nicer, better, safer for the children and the parents that rely on it. Not just Sunday but throughout the week. Hardy support. Thank you. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? May I have a motion? I'll make a motion to approve. I'll start. Thank you. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes, great. Project going to happy to put to support. Ms. We will. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Ms. Panado. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. The motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Next we have case B.O.A. 174-3094. With the address of 103 F Street. If the output can be handled or they represent a present, they please explain to the board. Yes. Thank you, Mr. Stembridge. Madam Chair, members of the board, Attorney Ryan Spitz, but that is a guarantee. Business address of 168 A Street, First floor, Salt Blasting. I am here today on behalf of the Ola-Shama Glory. Also joining me today is the Project Architect, Tenshiin. This is a proposal to extend living space of an existing single family on a corner lot, cornered a lot as approximately 1,260 square feet. The existing structure is two and a half stories with the rare addition in one parking space also in the rear. The proposal will extend the half story to a full story with the flat roof. The existing rear addition will be removed and all three floors will be enlarged in the rear, increasing the existing footprint of the building on the side lot of buddy and double street, and more shallow on the side of a lot of buddy 105 F Street. The proposal will add an additional parking space to the existing driveway without any changes to the current curb cut. The proposal is located within an MFI sub-district. We were cited for the following violations. We have a roof structure restriction violation. This relief requires a conditional use permit as the existing roof line is being altered. Three story buildings out aligned with the character of the neighborhood. We have a side yard insufficiency. Three feet is required by code and both side yards are pre-existing knowing and conforming. However, due to making the building deeper on Gold Street, we were cited for this violation. Further, the side yard closer to 105 F Street is being shortened. Given that this is a corner lot, the overall improves the conditions for the immediate direct-to-butter at 105 F Street. We have a front yard violation. This violation, again, is a pre-existing non-conformity, but we're being cited for this for their relief due to the vertical addition, and it's not worsening the front yard condition. We have a four-area ratio violation. A 2.0 is compliant under the code and this proposal calls for a 2.06. However, most buildings in this area seems to have the five-grade FAR than 2.0. And lastly, we have an off-street parking violation for a design maneuverability of the additional space being created. But again, this will not create any issues as this is a single-family dwelling. So at this point, Madam Chair, I'm going to turn it back over to you and the board for any questions. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? Are there any questions from the board? Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. That is Second. Second. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Stembridge. Yeah. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Wewale. Yes. Mr. Langem. Yes. Mr. Commons. Yes. Ms. Ponnato. Yes. Chairman, it is yes. The motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Next, we have case viewing. 1 6 5 5 4 4 8 with the address of 10 West Cedar Street. If the applicant can do whatever is on the present, we'll take away the suspect case of the board. Yes, good morning Madam Chair and members of the board. My name is Timothy Burke, I'm the architect for the project. I have a business address of 142 Berkeley Street and Boston. Thank you for the opportunity to present this proposal. My client has a single family house on West Cedar Street and the idea is to build a small addition on the back at the garden level that will allow them to enjoy the garden all year round as the existing house is somewhat closed off from the garden. The relief needed is for FAR. The house is the maximum FAR in this H2 65 district is two. And current FAR is 2.72. We're looking for a modest increase to 2.88. And the addition is not really visible from any of the neighbors except from upper stories. So it's a very low impact and will be filled with a really nice project for the family. I'd be happy to answer any questions that you may have. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? Karen, none. May I public testimony? Madam Chair and board members, Sigi Johnson with the mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This petitioner completed the ONS community process. Our office hosted in a butter's meeting on October 7th of 2024 at which no concerns were raised. The Beacon Hill Civic Association has met with the applicant and is in non-opposition to the proposal. With that background, ONS defers judgment to the board. Thank you. Thank you. It makes, we have Christensen, one of you. Good morning, Madam Chair and members of the board. Christian Seminarley, Boston Grandwater Trust. We have both C-Cod letters from the applicant. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, there are no additional comments. Okay, with that, may I have motion? Motion to approve. Is there a second? Back in. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Wu-Wau. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Ms. Pornado. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. The motion carries. Good luck. Thank you very much. Next, we have two campaigning cases. The first is case Meoway. 1703137 with the address of one glass of street. Along with that, we have case Meoway. 170314. Also with the address of one glass of street. If the applicant and other representatives of the present, will they please explain the cases of the boy? Yes. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. Jay Walsh from behalf of the property owner, Alexandra Dmitre. What we're seeking today is to change the legal occupancy of one glass of street from 10 residential units to 11. However, there is no work to be done that 11th residential unit is existing. This was discovered upon a routine inspection of the building that the documentation at ISD only reflected 10 residential units at the building while there have been 11 in existence for a long time. We submitted paperwork to ISD for clarity at the occupancy committee that included documentation from what was known as the rent equity board in 1986, along with tax records that showed that the building being 11 residential units. ISD preferred that we seek full legalization of that, or a change of occupancy from 10 to 11 by going through the process of the ZBA, which we're here today. I believe that the building code call out that was referenced was due to the size of the units that don't meet today's code. However, at the time of construction, they would believe to be sufficient. Also, in December of 2024, we conducted a walkthrough of the site with the building inspector from ISD and determined that the building had 12 electrical meters, 11 for the units in one for common areas, and it met all of the access and egress requirements for the units to be occupied. And I believe that our zoning violations that we have today are due to parking. There is no on-site parking today for any of the 11 units, and there are no plans for any to be added. Thank you. Are there any questions from the board? Hearing none, may I put up with the testimony? Madam Chair and Board members, Ciggy Johnson with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services, this petitioner completed the LNS Community Process our office oversight distribution of an informational flyer to all the butters within 300 feet, which solicited no comments to our office. The Neighborhood Association of the Back Bay has met with applicant and their in non-opposition. With that background, our office deferred judgment to the board. Thank you. Thank you. And next, we have Sam Courage. Morning, Chair, members of the board. This is Sam Courage from Councillor Durkonsonfest. The Councillor is in support of this proposal, and the rest of the members of the board, thank you very much. Madam Chair, we now have a decision on hands for you at the moment. You would have a motion. We're certainly approved. There is second. Second. Thank you. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Rue Rowe. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Panato. Yes. Mr. Collins, yes. Chair, the motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Okay. I will see everyone back at 11. Recording stopped.