 Thank you. Good evening. The City of Boston Zoning Board of Appeal hearing for August 18th, 2022 is now in session. This hearing is being conducted in accordance with the applicable provisions of the open meeting law, including the updated provisions enacted by the legislature last year. The new law allows the board to continue its practice of holding virtual hearings until March 2023. This hearing of the subcommittee is being held remotely via the Zoom webinar and platform. This hearing is also being recorded. In order to ensure that this hearing of the subcommittee is open to the public, members of the public may access this hearing through telephone and video conferencing. The information for connecting to this hearing is listed on today's hearing agenda, which is posted on the public notices page of the city's website Boston.gov. Members of the public will enter the virtual hearing as attendees, which means you will not see yourself on the screen and you will be muted throughout unless administratively unmuted when asked to comment. Board members, applicants and their attorneys or representatives will participate in the hearing as panelists and they will appear alongside the presentation materials when speaking panelists are strongly encouraged to keep the video on while presenting to the board. As with our in-person meetings, comments and support will be followed by comments and opposition. The order of comments is as follows, elected officials, representatives of elected officials and members of the public. The chair may limit the number of people called upon to offer comment and the time for commenting as time constraints require. That reason the board prefers to hear from members of the public who are most impacted by a project. That is those individuals who live closest to the project. If you wish to comment on appeal, please click the raise hand button along the bottom of your screen in the Zoom webinar platform. Click it again and your hand should go down. When the host sees your hand, you will receive a request to unmute yourself. Select yes and you should be able to talk. If you are connected to the hearing by telephone, please press star nine to raise and lower your hand. You must press star six to unmute yourself after you receive the request from the host. Again, if you are connected by telephone, please press star nine to raise and lower your hand and star six to unmute yourself. Those called upon to comment will be asked to state their name and address first and then and then can provide their comment. In the interest of time and to ensure that you have enough time to do so, please raise your hand as soon as Mr. Fortune reads the address into the record. Do not raise your hand before the relevant is address is called or the meeting host will not know the column you at the appropriate time. Mr. Fortune need a matter of chair. It's better. Rosa. Good evening, Madam chair. Good evening. Mr. Fortune, it's all yours. Thank you, Madam Chair. The first order of businesses are any deferrals or withdrawals, some of five o'clock cases. You can give the address first. You are deferring or withdrawing. They ring now called the first case. Calling B.O.A. 565482 26 union avenue. This is to install a curb cut and driveway for two parking spaces. The violations, Article 10, Section 1, limitation of area of accessory uses, Article 55, Section 20, possibly parking and loading design and maneuverability, and Article 55, Section 9, usable open spaces and sufficient. Name and address for the record, please. Sorry, one second. There is a raised hand here. Let me just go to it. Oh, the jakely CFC. Let me make you a panelist. My name is spread better line. I live at 2628 union avenue. So please, first of all, tell us is this. So it looks like these are two wood story frame buildings. Is this and which, which building is the parking connected to and is it owner occupied? Can I just start an introduction quickly? No, I just want to know those questions responses to those questions now. I live in the first house, which is number 26 and the back house is my tenant and the intention is that each house would have a parking spot. Okay, I understand that this particular project and this particular request came to this board before. So please tell us what the previous proposal was and what this proposal is. Actually, it didn't come to the board before it was I filed the appeal. I think it was 2014. And I went to the neighborhood and I didn't have, I didn't really have the support. So I, I, I didn't follow through. So I've never been to the board for this. Okay, because, um, okay, so go ahead and tell us what you're proposing to do. So, um, I just want to say I'm a 41 year resident of Jamaica plain and this is the 10th year I've had this property. Okay, just tell us about about the facts of the proposal. We have other other other applicants behind you. So we would like you to be very precise about about your proposal. Um, do you mean the other property, my property, are you asking about my property? Yes, the proposal that's in front of us, please talk us through that. Okay, so I have the, um, the first house, it's a single family. The house behind me is a single family. I have a couple living there who are my tenants. So the, um, and I guess I'm basically want to say the driveway, I pushed it back here to get it away from the street rather than being in the front of the house. And I also have an egress along the side of the house. You see on the right side. That's a three foot egress that goes all the way to the street. So that's, uh, for safety. Well, the, the role a couple of people are proposing is there. So tell us about what is the street? Um, where the wide driveway is proposed, or the second, the second dwelling is, is, what is that street? This, uh, the, the top of the drawing shows Union Street. Okay. And the top of the drawing is Union Street. So the driveway starts there and you can see the 10 foot width of the curve cut. the driveway goes back is a 10 foot width along the side of the house back to the parking spaces. There are label parking spaces. Okay, so tell me is there parking on that side of the street on Union Street? Yes, there is. There's not on the opposite side, but there is on this side, but I'd give up one parking space, but gain two, the street would lose two cars because it's a tandem parking situation. Okay, let's see. How are the plans Miss Meta-Barraza? Madam Chair, the plans are adequate. Madam Chair, Mr. Dominguez-Stocklandess, I don't know if Mr. Dominguez on. It doesn't look like he's on. I'd like to put his comments in for the record. Okay. God in 26 Union Avenue, he says it's okay. He believes that the curb cuts should be reduced to 12 feet. Okay. Okay. So is anybody here to speak in support or in opposition to this proposal? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor Newman with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. At this time, the Mayor's Office is like to defer to the board. Some background information on the community process. Our office held the butters meeting on March 17th. It was heavily attended by residents and director butters on Union Ave. While there was a lot of support from what is essentially a curb cut application, there were some concerns raised by two director butters regarding emergency egress and parking as apparently it's very scarce in that part of the neighborhood. The Jamaica Plain, the JPMC Zoning Subcommittee voted not to oppose this proposal at this time we defer to the board. Thank you. Madam Chair, Secretary here, we do have letters of support in opposition as the Mayor's Office spoke of. Madam Chair, I do have a few raised hands here. I'll start with tests. Can you state your name and address for the record please? So I'm Tess Lasnack. Can you hear me? Yes, go ahead. Oh, I'm at 30 Union Avenue. So we are a direct about our respoke in favor. I just sorry, the person who spoke before me said there were two direct butters who oppose I think that's inaccurate. Please tell us. Since you have the floor, please tell us about your support or opposition so that we can then hear from other people. All right, so we're in support of it. I mean, we have a similar driveway. We're able to subble shovel snow. People are able to walk to our house to the car and the fence. Thank you. Okay, Alex. Madam Chair, I have someone next to me a neighborhood like to speak. Alex, you're unmuted. Can you state your name and address for the record please? Hi, my name is Alex Guteo. I'm a direct about our to Fred's property. The address is 30 Union Avenue on the plant. I am the house behind Marie Perley's house. I am in support of Fred's proposal. He's been a good neighbor. Take care of his property. I think it net. We add one more parking spot on the street and I am familiar with a number of neighbors on the street that have similar parking arrangements and have no problem with managing those arrangements. Thank you. Okay, and Tess, can you state your name and address for the record please? Okay, okay. I have no additional way of saying thank you. Madam Chair, can you hear me? Yes, please go ahead. I have a neighbor here. He'd like to speak. His name is Andrew Lynch. He lives on Union Ave. Madam Chair, thank you very much. My name is Andrew Lynch. I'm from 64 Union Avenue and Jamaica Plain and I'd like to add my support for Mr. Bedelines Request for Off-Street Parking and a curb cut. I mean it's a simple case of math. He takes away one spot on the street and adds takes two cars off the street. Thank you. Thank you. I'm sorry, I'm Marie Perley. Can you hear me? Hi, my name is Marie Terley. I live at 32 Union Avenue. I am a Director of Butter and again this is not about any of our service or residency in the neighborhood. It's about the proposal. With all due respect, Connor, there was not a vote of support at the J.P. neighborhood council. It was heard twice and at no time was there a vote to support the proposal. What we're really here about today is a significant documentation that has been provided to the board in anticipation of this hearing. What is unique about this is that it's a double pork chop so I'm on one pork chop and Mr. Bedeline is on the other. This is an extremely dense location. Hold on, hold on, Mr. Terley. What do you mean by two pork chop lots? Both these buildings from what I can gather that are subject to this this parking request are on the same lot. But the blocks that are but it are also pork chop so you have four houses in close proximity. Extremely close. I provided a slide to show that with my letter in opposition and I because we don't have access to the screen, I can't show it to you. But literally you can reach out from 28 and touch 30 are. We're extremely close. I would ask you to look at that documentation. I would also like to point out that currently Mr. Bedeline does not park on the street. So we're not losing two cars on the street. We're privatizing one spot and not taking two cars off the street. He parks in the rear. Also we provided for you documentation that Mr. Bedeline sent at the second JP neighborhood council meeting. And he did and we appreciate show both cars parked in the very narrow driveway. If you look at those documentation, you can see how very little space there is between where the cars are and where the wall of the houses. There's a question of entrance according to the BPD guidelines for how you would enter from Union Avenue to the rear. So even though there's 10 feet with, in fact three of it or so is necessary for the egress. So Mr. Lee, if I may summarize then, your concern is related one to density two to the number of actual parking spaces that will be taken off the street and three, the closeness and the concern about hazard is that is that also your concern? I can just sum it up with access of emergency vehicles, whether it's fire or ambulances with this particular proposed and also the maneuverability because JP Union Avenue is a very busy pass through. The cars, even though they would have each other's keys, every time they needed to maneuver, both cars would have to come out in the street. They're probably going to be idling, similarly with snow removal. So that really this proposal is going to really impact the street in terms of deliveries, in terms of maneuverability, things that are pointed out within the rejection letter. This has come before and adotally on the street, we know that an effort was made by the previous owner to do this kind of a create a curb cut and that was denied because of the narrowness and they ended up having to have handicap parking in the front of the building at 26 Union. So it's the maneuverability and its impact on the street. It's the access of emergency vehicles, fire, etc. And also the proximity of the houses just in terms of risk in general. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Okay. Anybody else miss Ambassador? Given that, given that information? I answer the uh no, no, no, no, no. Okay, given that information in support and in opposition and and the concerns raised may I have a motion. Madam Chair, I like to put for a motion of approval with to proviso. One is to narrow the curb cut to 12 feet and the second one is to have BPD a BPD a design review to review the direct path of entry from the sidewalk to the building at the rear. I want to agree with that. I'll second that motion. I'm actually in opposition to this proposal. So I would suspect then it should it should probably go to the full board for discussion. Correct, Madam Chair. Yes. Okay. So thank you both. So may I have then a motion for deferral to the full board? I'll make that motion that we change it with the furthest to the full board. We can do it next Tuesday to 23rd. Okay. So it's 823. So that'd be at 1130. Miss better. Second. You second that I two women support. So we will see everybody on 823 at 11 o'clock. 1130, Madam Chair. I'm sorry, 1130. I'm going to next case on DOA 1, 2, 6, 5, 1, 5, 2, 10, constant street. This is the asphalt paved driveway which has not been three vehicles. Paved driveway in front of the house can let outside, let outside car move easier if the inside car needs to come out. This paved driveway is not for parking purposes. The violation is on 65 section 41, on street parking and loading, and on 65 section 9, side yard is the situation. Name an address for the record please. Does anybody want to 10 cars in street? There is a raised hand one second. Alan B, you heard this project? I sent a request on new you. Can you hear me? Oh yes, go ahead. Hi, I'm the owner of 10,000 street. So I just want to mention that we changed our proposal to we decreased the number of parking phases from 3 to 2. And then we also changed the asphalt pavement to paper stones to solve the water flows problem. Okay, so please before we go any further, is this a 102 family and is it owner occupied? This is a single family and it's owner occupied? Yes, okay. So, Madam Chair, I'm sorry I interrupt you. Mr. Domingo spoke on this. Yes. And he said he doesn't have the plan to see that he has to reflect more detail and it only shows one vehicle. Yes, that's what we see on the screen. So please go ahead and tell us what you're proposing to do. I'm having a little bit of a hard time understanding these plans. So please talk us through it and tell us what you're proposing to do. It seems like this plan is the old one because I update the new one on the system and send it to a officer. Okay, so how about this? We'll call you back and in the meantime, they will look for the for what you resummitted. Okay, so if anybody is here for Carson Street, please stay on and then we will return to this project. Okay, sorry. Calling an X-K, calling DOA 12955987 Rock Road. Just to remove an old red deck and build a bathroom addition and a new red deck, the violations article 69 section 9 side-jotted patient, article 69 section 9 array is insufficient. They may not just fill the record please. Hi, yes, I'm the daughter of the owner and I also reside here. My name is, full name is Alex here. Yeah, Alex here. Okay, so tell us what's being proposed. So right now we are proposing to redo the back deck and in addition within that deck, adding a bathroom in there. So taking away portion of that deck is what, that's already existing. So we're not adding any extra footing to that part of the the back area of the house, which is in closing portion of the deck to create a bathroom in there. Okay, and this bathroom would be attached to the house, I assume. Yes, okay, okay, okay, how the plans must better. And the plans are adequate. Sorry. Okay, anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition of this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor Newman with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This time the Mayor's Office, like to defer judgment to the board. We're unaware of any concerns with this project. Thank you. Hello, hello, hello. I'm sure I have no raised hands. Can I can I speak to my name is going to be William. My name is go back to William. Yes, what is your address? My address. I'm at 52 in the mood. My, my, my street is parallel to the, an Alexa pier. I was. Are you in support or in opposition? I'm a supporter. I, I will like the city to approve the project. Okay, thank you. Thank you very much. Actually, I had no additional raise hands. Okay. Do we have the BPDs recommendation on this? I did not see it. I'm assuming not. But yes, we do have a, they approved it. Okay, may I have a motion, please? I like to put forward a motion of approval. I'll second that motion. I too am in support. So you're all set. Good luck. Thank you. I'm sorry. Mr. Fortune. Hi. Miss Betabaraza. Hi. Our Joe is also in support. Okay, do we have to go back to those other ones to do those all over? Let's, let's do that at the end. Okay. Okay. Tom says it's fine. Oh, Tom says it's fine. Okay. Following your next case, calling the OA 1332 110 200 turtle pond backway, reframing of the second floor to extend the second story height and footprint of an existing single family. The scope also includes the new covered entry floor. So the violation. Article 69 section 9 front yard is an exhibition. Name and address for the record please. Hi, my name is Stephen Petapas. I'm the architect of this project. I live at Seven Stimpsom Street in West Roxbury. This is an existing nonconforming house where the front yard is only 20 feet or quite be 25. We are extending that nonconformance to the second floor, adding approximately 315 additional square feet to the second floor and then putting an attic on top of that and also extending the existing entryway over the actual landing of the front porch. Okay. Can I just see what tell us what page we should be looking at to see what this will look like once it's been. If you keep scrolling down, you'll see the existing floor plans. These are the proposed floor plans. And as you keep this is the second floor with a section scroll down one more time and you'll see that these are the exterior elevations. Okay. So okay. Just your just your clarification. I believe there was an error on the drawing. I think you noted basement plan but that was supposed to be second floor. Is that correct? Yes, that that is probably correct. I do that quite often. Okay. And is this owner occupied? Yes it is. Okay. And that garage that's there is going to remain, right? Yes, it's existing. Okay. Okay. How would the plans miss Betemaraza? Madam Chair, other than what I just noted they're fine. Anybody here to either speak in support or in opposition? On my apologies, Madam Chair. Our liaison is out and I don't have the notes in front of me from the community process. So with that we defer to the board. Thank you. If you like I can go over what we did. We had a fairly successful butters meeting. I believe only two butters showed up both in favor and we had a mismatched with the community service and when we tried to reschedule they just sent the notice back saying basically they approved it because it's such a simple project. Okay. Miss Ambassador, any raised hands? No raised. Oh, one just popped up one second. Okay. Zoom user. I'm sending a request to unmute you. Can you state your name and address for the record please? Frederick Turkowski and David Moyer or address this tool for it turned upon far away for the neighbors. And are you in support or in opposition? In support. Thank you so much. I have no additional raised hands, Madam Chair. May I have a motion please? Madam Chair, I'd like to put forward a motion of approval with BPDA design review. Okay. I'll second that motion. Okay. So Miss, Mr. Fortune. Yes. Miss Betta Baraza. Yes. A round. Joe is also in support. So motion carries. Following the next case, calling the OA 133-5195-15 maple street. This is to replace 77 feet of six foot fence with 77 feet of eight foot fence on the back right of the property from the corner of garage to the corner of the lot. The goal is to reduce the noise from center street and parking on the other side of the fence. Violation.2A section 01, God regulations. Within a required side yard, no planting other than shade trees shall be maintained more than six feet above the average natural grade. Such yard and no structure shall be erected next step. Name and address for the wreckage please. Anybody from maple street on? There's a hand to just show that one second. Jasmine? James Solomon, are you here for this proposal? Yes. Yeah, I'm the contractor but also owner and I'm here with Christine Shelley, who's also the owner. Hey, please put your name and address on the record. Tell us if this is a one family or two family and tell us whether it's owner occupied. Single family owner occupied. And tell us what you're proposing? Replace an existing wooden six foot fence that 77 feet long within eight foot fence. For we also have a pool in the back two in the line of sight from center street and from the back parking lot of the dental office and a funeral home is pretty clear into the yard so we want to just reduce the view so no one can really see that there's a pool there also sound buffering privacy on our end because it is facing a parking lot of a dental office and a funeral home and we can view center street too. Okay and what kind of fence is this? Existing one is the six foot stock aid fence which I think is pine. We would be replacing it with an eight foot seat of fence. Okay, I'm not going to comment on that pool but there are regulations about enclosing pools so no stray people could take a tumble in the pool or hurt themselves in some way so you may want to make sure that pool also meets all other regulations. Yes. Okay, how are the plans Ms. Betta Baraza? Madam Chair the plans are adequate. Anybody to speak either in support or in opposition at this proposal? Good evening Madam Chair, members of the board, Jake Lacey from the mayor's office of neighborhood services. The applicant went in front of the West Rocksburg neighborhood council zoning committee on June 21st 2022 where they received a vote of support five to zero. We have not received any letters of opposition and at this time we defer to this decision of the board. Thank you. I'm sure I have no raised hands at the moment. Okay, I have a motion, please. Madam Chair, I'd like to put for a motion of approval with BPDA Design Review to review the length, the design and the material of the fence and to also provide a step down near their side side yard. And that's for visibility? Ms. Betta? Yes, because if they're just doing the corner closer to the front is a residential structure so we just want to be careful on how that fence side yard is designed. I would also encourage the applicant to look at some planting as well. And we'll ask the BPDA to recommend planting. Okay, so, um, fortune? Aye. Betta Baraza? Aye. A row Joe's also in support so you're all stuck with approval with those provisos. So good luck. Thank you. Following a next case, calling B.O.A. 1337104, 25, Rosston Road. This is the second floor dormer addition with half bathroom, second floor insulation to finishes, heat pump insulation and associated probing, task appropriate. Violation article 67, section 9, Affleuth A. ratio is excessive. Article 67, section 9, the side yard is sufficient. And Article 67, section 9, the Rhea is insufficient. They have an address for the record please. My name is Frank Dill, 27 Leslie Road, Belmont and I'm here as an architect for representing the property owners. And is this a one family or two family and is it owner occupied? It's a one family and it's owner occupied. Okay, so tell us what's being proposed? Well, there's an existing Cape style house and we are proposing a single shed dormer on the rear of the house. Okay. And so the shed dormer would and what's the distance between the rear of that building and the yard? Sorry, the rear of the building to the property line is about 38 feet one inch. Is that what you were asking? Yep. And the side yard is what is the distance to the side yard? The closest point to the existing house is three foot three, the closest point from the property line to the proposed dormer is five foot one. And we believe this side yard is reduced in this case because of the narrow lot to eight feet. Okay. How would the plans must better? And I'm sure the plans are adequate. Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition of this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor Newman with the Mayor's Office Neighborhood Services. This time the Mayor's Office like to defer a judgment to the board. Some background information on the community process or office held in the butters meeting on June 21st. There were some concerns from director butters regarding the dormer windows and what they've received as a lack of privacy. This issue regarding the dormers was discussed privately between the butters and neighbors. Our offices received 17 letters and statements of support and one letter of opposition regarding this proposal. Thank you. Secretary here we have those letters of support and opposition that the Mayor's Office for. Thank you. I think I have a few ways to answer. I'll start with Niles. Can you state your name and address for the marketplace once unmuted? A good afternoon. Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is Niles Falks of 20 Malvernor Road. I am the director butter behind 25 Ralston Road and I object to the shed dormer being built as proposed which will face my property. I want to be clear that I have no objection to building a dormer. My objection is where they propose it be built. Including the June 21st meeting, the proponents and I have spoken several times about my concerns regarding their plans but I've been unable to reach agreement on modifications. It is their desire, their wish to create more living space but that desire would argue that's not create a hardship requiring variance approval as defined in chapter okay so tell us about how this will affect you more precisely. I would suggest as the variance is allowed it will be injurious to my property as defined in chapter 665 because I want to know is I want to know is it going to cast the shadow on you or I want to know oh okay it's going to call specifically what you anticipate the inquiry. It's going to call some more density because of the house and garage already which are on the backside of the house and the back of my house faces that. Also the creation of the dormer will cause loss of the modicum of privacy I now enjoy and replace that with like a fishbowl environment which will take away the joy I have of living in the house. Thank you. Emily, can you say your name and address for the worker? My name is Emily Walsum at 17, rosten road so I am the director butter on the side yard on the rosten road side. Tell us whether you're in support or in opposition. I am in support. Okay so then because your side yard is five feet one inch okay okay thank you. Madam Chair. Madam Chair. Madam Chair, no additional raise hands. Okay. May I ask of the applicants have you explode the option of having your dormer on the front of the building? Well I can address that we have looked at that option that I guess is even less in compliance than the dormer in the back because it would be entirely in the front setback. We're actually equally close to the neighbor across the street as we are to niles in the rear and there's actually no trees blocking that view. The owners found that it would be you know very public to have the dormer on the front side. Okay. Madam Chair. Thank you. Madam Chair, may I say something? Can I okay I'm gonna this is a board meeting and I just like to move now to a discussion with the board members. Okay so please everybody mute yourself. Is there a BPD a recommendation? Yes. Please help us out because I honestly didn't see that but I may have just not. Okay go ahead. The recommendation was the recommend that you're asking if the BPD a made a recommendation. Yeah. They did make a recommendation for approval with special attention to design of dormer. For design of dormer. Okay and as our planning agency we we put weight into what they say. So may I have a motion please? Madam Chair I'd like to put forward a motion of approval with BPD a design review paying special attention to the dormers. I'll second that motion. Do we want any additional screening and buffering? No I see this is a very I and Madam Chair I see a very modest edition and the blooders are very far away. Okay okay so that's so fortunate. Beta Baraza. Hi. Rao Jo is also in support so the the motion for approval with design review carries. Good luck. Thank you. And please continue talking with your butter so that you know you you you maintain as cordial a relationship is possible. Thank you. I'm your next case calling B O A 1337 466 438 Main Street. This is an edition of a third floor and attic playroom half a story in red mudroom edition. These existing first floor kitchen will be remodel. Violation. Article 62 section 25. Resurrection. Denonicle 62 section 8. The building is excessive in stories. Name and address for the record please. Hello my name is Tim Adescienne I'm the architect for the project. My clients are you know are the homeowners and it's a single family. Okay tell us what's being proposed. What we'd like to do is add a story and a gable and an you know an attic playroom to an existing two and a half story house. Um this is in a I don't know a 30 unit development from the late 80s and the house to our immediate left number 438 Main Street is already at the 3 and a half stories so we just want to match exactly what's going on next door. And that came before this board. Probably in 1987 yes. Okay um can you tell us which plan we should look at to see exactly what it might look like? Yeah go down I think I'd go down I'll go up I can't see which where it is but it's only three drawings. Thank you. I'll go up I didn't see it. There it is that's that's the way it's going to look. I've I've put in gray hatched gray to show you what will be new. So the whole project is they have an existing basement now that's exposed at the back. We'll like to create that turn that into an office storage space not a bedroom. The seven foot nine inches of head room and it's a perfect space for it. We'd like to put a door in an area way to get you up for access to the backyard from that basement level. The second floor we would move, change it around just to get stairs up to the third floor just matching what you know the floor plan from next door. And then to match next door we're going to do a gable roof as well and we'll like to put 200 square feet up there as a playroom of storage. Um this house now is 936 square feet and it's a family of five so they just need to go. Okay um how are the plans miss bed of baraza? Manager the plan is adequate. Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition of this proposal? Yes, Madam Chair members of the board, Connor Newman with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. At this time the mayor's office like to defer judgment to the board. Some background information on the community process. Our office is unaware of any concerns at this time. We did share the plans with one of butter upon requests but they did not fall through with our office. With that we defer to the board. Thank you. Madam Chair I have no resistance. Okay may I have a motion please? Madam Chair just wanted to let you know that the BPDA also made a recommendation and the recommendation was to approve the project with BPDA design review but to remove the basement conversion of habitable space due to the property being located in a coastal flood, resilient or really district. Okay. Okay. So I'm going to move forward a very similar motion. Please so go ahead do do make a motion. Okay I like to put a motion forward for approval with two provisos. One is BPDA design review and the second one is to remove the basement conversion of habitable space due to its location of a coastal flood, resilience or really district. A second motion. I too am in support so um, portion. Aye. Better Baraza. Aye. Around you all so in support. So motion with those provisos. Carey is good luck. Thank you everybody. Following an ex-case calling the away 1339 956 127 train street. This is a proposed second floor addition to an existing one story single family a new front porch. The violation of article 65 sex and nine front yard is insufficient. Article 65 sex and nine side yard is insufficient. An article 65 sex and nine the rear yard is insufficient. Name and address for the record please. It's Lisa Bartlett 127 train street and my husband Robert is also here. So tell us what you're proposing to do. So we want to do a second floor addition and also a new front porch. So the second floor addition will just be on the existing footprint of the house. And so how many square feet is that? Do you know that I think it'll be an additional thousand square feet. A thousand square feet and this is on our occupied. Yes. Okay. And has this particular project come before this board in the past? No. No. Okay. Okay. So it's proposed entire second floor addition. Okay. So all these violations are existing violations. And tell us about the front porch. Is it going to be an open or enclosed front porch open? Okay. How are the plans miss Betta Baraza? I'm sure the plans are adequate. Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition of this proposal? Yes. Good evening, Madam Chair, members of the board. George Wynn with the mayor's office and the board services. Our office held in a bloodage meeting for this project on July 5th. And there were no concerns from the community. At this time, our office would like to defer judgment to the board. Thank you. Thank you. I don't know, Chair, I have no raised stands. You may have a motion, please. Madam Chair, I'd like to put for a motion of approval with BPD a designer review. I'll second that motion. Okay, fortune. Aye. Betta Baraza. Aye. Rao Joe also, I so the motion for approval with design review carries. Good luck. Thank you. Thank you. Call the next case calling the OA 134148274 Baker Street. This is an attached two car garage with playroom and bathroom of up the garage. The violation out of 56 section 8, the rear yard is in addition. Amen, Agents, for the record, please. Women, hi, this is Eileen Mervil at 74 Baker Street. Can you hear me? Yes, please tell us what you're proposing to do. Okay, I'm proposing for a two car garage with a lot of other playroom, bathroom and it'll be in the rear, the rear part of the property. And it has an insufficient sea of the... Hold on, hold on, let's, let's, we just need to understand a little bit more clearly what you're proposing to do. So I see your house, I see the proposed garage. Yes. And explain, I think I don't clearly understand if you're proposing to attach the garage to the house or you're proposing these uses inside the garage. I'm proposing, I'm going to, what we want to attach the garage to the house. It'll be attached for right down on that. You can see it on the, the drawing on the right side there. With the electric pole, everything will be attached to the home right by that bathroom on, on the first floor in the porch. Okay, so that's the proposed garage plans. You're going to put a bathroom. Okay, no, no, the bathroom's already there. It's just, oh, I see, yes, inside. So it's a little, and there's a little breezeway. And you're not proposing, because I see a toilet there. You're not proposing any occupancy in that garage, are you? No, we're not. That's just basically storage in a, it's in craft area for me. So we need the storage. And the other thing is, is we have a trailer outside with a car in it. And we'd like to put that inside the garage with with my car. That makes sense. Okay. And then I got, I had five letters sent in. How would the plans miss Metabaraza? Madam Chair, the plans are adequate. Any, anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition to this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the board, Jake Lacey from the Mayor's Office and Neighborhood Services. The applicant went in front of the West Rocksbury Neighborhood Council on June 21st. And the Zoning Committee voted 70 in support of the project. We have not received any letters of opposition. And at this time, we defer to the judgment of the board. Thank you. Madam Chair, I have no raised hands. Madam Chair, Secretary here, we do have one letter of support. And the West Rocksbury Neighborhood Support. May I have a motion, please? Madam Chair, I'm going to make a motion which is similar to the BPDF recommendation. And then motion is to approve the project with BPDF design review, but to turn the full bathroom into a half bath with no shower. Okay. To half bath. Okay. And you're in support. To support. I'll support that as well. Okay. So just for the checkoff list here, fortune. Aye. Madam Barraza. Aye. A round you all to aye. The motion carries. Good luck. Thank you very much. Calling the next case. Calling the OA 134 33014 Delanel Park. Just to renovate the existing third floor bedroom. Extend header height over the existing stairs. Head under a frame. An added bathroom and laundry to the third floor. Violation article 67 section 9. The floor to your ratio is excessive. Notical 67 section 9. The rear yard is in secret. Name an address for the record. Wellington. To be honest. Wellington Rossi can you hear us? Can you unmute yourself? He's on the panel. I'm not sure what's going on. What is connectable? I don't think he can. He can be muted. He's still in. Okay. Can you hear me now? Yeah. Yeah. So first for you go. I was going to. I was going to put your name and address on the record. Tell us if this is a one family or two family and if it's owner occupied. Okay. My name is Wellington Rossi. The four Delanel Park is a two family. It's a two family and it's owner occupied or not? It's two owners. Yes. Okay. Got it. Good. Okay. So please tell us what's being proposed? What is proposed was if you were stealing the design there was just an an a frame that was existing already a little a frame on a you can see the outlines and a little little dormant who raised the stairs so the head of heart was you know too cold and comfortable to walk and up to the third floor that was existing there. And the bad just just to clarify the bathroom and the laundry is under to the right side of the existing a frame. So that was just inside of the existing area too. So actually we just increased the square footage by 86 square feet. That's all what it was. So all together all this all this ambition is 86 square feet. That will be correct. Yes. Right. Okay. How are the plans Mr. Berraza? The plans are adequate manager. Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition to this proposal? Yes. Spend them chair members of the board Connor Newman with the mayor's office neighborhood services. At this time the mayor's office like to defer judgment to the board. Some background information in the community process are office held in the butters meeting on July 13th. No butters were in attendance and subsequently no one reached out to our office. If we understand the applicant also did reach out to the Longfellow area in the neighborhood association with that we defer to the board. Thank you. And no long longfellow does not is nowhere near Delena Park. Yeah. I'm not sure. Man, I just think it's the other side of Rossi. This is just the notes I have from Marley. Okay. Yeah. Okay. So may I have a motion please? Madam Chair, I'd like to put a forward motion of approval with BPDA designer review paying special attention to the design of the dormer. A second to have motion. Okay. Fortune. Better Berraza. I. A row Joe Allson supports a motion for approval with design review carries. Good luck. Following the next case, calling BLA135069316 Meredith Street. This is the extension of living space into the attic, the new third floor bedroom and bathroom, the violation. The 56 section 8, the Florida AirAsia was excessive. Name and address for the record please. My name is Margaret Darrell off. Our address is 16 Meredith Street in West Roxbury. It's a one one family and it's owner occupied. Thanks for being so succinct. So tell us what you're proposing to do. We would like to finish our third floor to turn it into a bedroom with a full bath and and that would include a dormer. That would include a dormer. And how many square feet is this total? No. There is there is no addition to the there's no extrusion only on the property. It would not add any square footage. It changes the far because of the five foot wall that has to be done. Okay. And okay, how are the plans with better Berraza? And I'm sure the plans are adequate. Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition of this proposal? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Jake Lacey from the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services, the applicant. We as Office of Neighborhood Services hosted a meeting with the applicant on July 14th, where the rear abutters voice their support. And then the applicant also went in front of the West Roxbury Neighborhood Council on July 25th, where they received a vote in support of 7 to 0. Finally, we received six letters of support from abutters on the front and the sides of the properties as well. We have not received any letters of opposition and at this time we defer to the judgment of the board. Thank you. Madam Chair, Secretary, we do have four letters of support. Thank you. May I have a Miss, Miss Ambassador? Madam Chair, I have no raised hands. Thank you. May I have a motion, please? Madam Chair, I'd like to perform a motion of approval with BPDA Design Review on next year. Second, that motion. Fortune. Aye. Madam Berraza. Aye. Around you all to I, some motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Thank you. Calling an ex-case, calling B-O-A-135-18122-1-Million terrorists. This is adding an addition to the top of the building for a second floor addition and attic space, storage space to the existing dwelling. The Violation Medical 56 Section 8 Front Yad is in sufficient, an Article 56 Section 8, the side Yad is in sufficient. May I just fill the record please? Hello, my name is Lauren Trembla. Here at My Husband David, we resided to Emilia Terrace. It's an owner occupied single family home. Okay, tell us what you're proposing to do. Our goal is to add a second story onto our single story home. It does not change the footprint of the house. Okay, and all these violations are existing violations. Yes, they're all pre-existing. And what's the total square foot addition that you're proposing? Currently right now our house is 1,000 square feet, and we're adding 1,000 square feet on top of the first floor. Okay, how the plans must better be? Madam Chair, is the plan so adequate? Is anybody here? Is anybody here? Can you scroll down just a little bit so we can have a look at the plans? Thank you. Okay. Thank you. Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition of this proposal? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Jake Lacey from the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. The applicant went in front of the West Roxbury Neighborhood Council on June 21st, where they received a vote of support 5-0. We haven't received any letters of opposition at this time. We deferred to the judgment of the board. Thank you. Madam Chair, secretary here, we do have two support letters. Mr. Massager, anybody else? No, Madam Chair, I have no raised hands. We have a motion, please. Madam Chair, I'd like to perform a motion of approval with BDAA Design Review. I'll second that motion. Fortune. Aye. Better Baraza. Aye. A round, Joe's also, aye, some motion for approval with Design Review. Carries, good luck. Thank you. Calling the next case, calling DLA 135-9668-025, Fomington Road. This is a construct a rare three-story addition to an existing dwelling, including complete interior remodel, extension of a living space to the lowest level, and a new red deck, and an attached shed. The violation of Article 10, Section 1, limitation of parking area, Article 56, Section 8, the fluey ratio was excessive. Article 56, Section 40, the application of a dimensional regulation, the side job of certain narrow lads 10 feet wide driveways required. Article 56, Section 40.1, conforming with existing building alignment. Article 56, Section 8, the building hides excessive in stories. And Article 56, Section 8, the side job is insufficient. Name and address for the record, please. I've been Hernandez, Y-11 Baker Street, on behalf of the homeowners. As stated, we're proposing a three-story rear addition to existing. Let me just ask you a couple of questions. Is this a single or a two-family and is it owner-occupied? A single and owner-occupied, yes. Okay. So please go ahead then and tell us what's being proposed. The proposal is for an addition in the back of the house. Three stories. We're going to be adding an open family room area on the first floor, extending the kitchen, family living area on the first floor, and then creating an additional bedroom on the second floor, master bedroom suite. On the basement area, part of the new basement area, or the new basement area will be finished off, and then part of the existing basement area will also be finished off. There is a couple of questions. What's the occupancy of the basement proposed to be? It's going to be for a recreational space for the home. And there's going to be some mechanical area down there, about mainly recreational space. It's a walk-out. Okay. And let's ask, and what about the attic? The attic would be for most part unfinished. It's just going to be a long-range space created up in the attic, because there was no space on the second floor to fit it. Okay. And then talk to us about the new rear deck and the attached shed. Yeah, the rear deck is a four-foot deep deck along the back of the house, and then there'll be a little bit of a direct-tangle deck area to the left. The reason that is is that we had been asked to try to keep the setback alignment of the building and the back because of the parkway, the BFW parkway, and so we adjusted modified the drawings to accommodate the wishes of the public works department. Okay. Um, then, okay. Okay, got it. How are the plans, Ms. Bedabaraza? Madam Chair, the plans are adequate. Anybody here to speak? Is there in support or in opposition of this proposal? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Jake Lacey from the Mayor's Office and Neighborhood Services. Our office hosted a community meeting on May 10th with minimal community interest for this meeting, and then the applicant also went in front of the West Rocksbury Neighborhood Council on June 21st, where they received a vote of 6-0 in support. Our office also received three letters of support from the community with no letters of opposition. At this time, we defer to the judge on the board. Thank you. Madam Chair, we have those letters in May as Office of the Development. Thank you. Madam Chair, I have any comments. Okay, may I have a motion, please? Madam Chair, I'd like to put forward a motion with two provisal that will be reviewed by the BPDA and also by the Department of Parks and Recreation given that it's locations within the Grebelle Protection Orally District. I'll second that motion. Okay, fortune. Aye. Madam Barraza. Aye. Arousso also in support. So motion carries. Good luck. Thank you very much. Thank you. Following the next case, we'll be discussing calling case BLA 1336189 2005 to a Chester Avenue. This is extended driveway to five vehicles on the side of the house. Violations Article 65 Section 41, Oscar Repi, Remit requirements, and Article 65 Section 9, residential, dimensional regulations, and sufficient usable open space. Name and address for the record, please. Brancing times. 2005 door, just to have. Okay, Ms. Times, tell us why you were deferred before or did you request the deferral? No, they wanted measurements. That's why I'm having a second meeting. The first time I just presented the plot plan for the for the area, but I presented pictures and measurements. So you can see where I'm going to be parking my cars because I'm going to have a section of the house or a section of the property as faulted. So I could number one, prevent water from going into my property. And number two, easy access for me, maintenance free as I get older. Madam Chair, Mr. Domingo is spoke on this. I don't know if you've seen his comments. I have not. Okay, Mr. In regarding 2005, Dorchester Avenue, Ward 17, the plans are very poor, and show one vehicle would be parked in the front yard. Okay, so let's look at the revised drawings and see if that clarifies anything. Okay, so let's just see. So we have the. There's another set of drawings. Yeah. It's not this. I think this one is with photos. There's another second set of drawings. It's two, it's almost like two plot plans. Mr. Domingo's comments for from August 12th. Okay, thank you. In the meantime, we're waiting for this to load. Is there anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition if this proposal? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, George Wynne with the May and the Office of the Senate. And I think it's something that services. Our office hosted in a butter's meaning for the proposal on May 15th. We heard no concerns in the community. At this time our office will defer judgment to the board. Thank you. Any other raise hands, Mr. Ambassador? Madam Chair, I have no raise hands. Okay, so let's look at the plans and see what we have before us. What I found very confusing was to understand a clear survey drawing of what's existing and then what's being proposed or what's being requested for variance. Okay, so these are let me just ask this times this is the revised drawing that we have in front of us. Well, that's the drawing that you had from from a from a job that I was going to do, but I had that abandoned. Okay, and then where I and then where I have the pink shading is what I submitted before just to kind of show where my parking, my extended parking is going to be because I'm not that's what I'm doing. Okay, so and then where are the where are the dimensions that you said you had. I put them on the pitches, I submitted the pictures so you can see it on the pictures. Okay, I see I get it so and what size. So let me just ask you already have a cup cut. Yes, I already have a cup. So I don't need one. So what's the what's the length of that code cut. So I can't see anything on the picture. So I can't remember. Okay, so please can we go back to the photographs to see if they're annotated in any way. I would like to. Is it possible to make a recommendation. I do think we should just give the applicant a chance to talk through her proposal. Because then we can make recommendations based on that. So I'm hoping to see if there's anything that Tuesday's meeting because I noticed that the that the city's internet. It's very slow or loading this morning. So I'm hoping Tuesday will have, you know, everything will be good. Okay, okay, perfect. Okay, so what's the point for the picture? So there's a. 14 foot cub cut existing. Yeah, and in the pictures on my two cars. I had the parking in the street because there was a dumpster in my driveway only because I was doing the inside of my house over. Okay. So, but I submitted all the pictures so you can see everything. And then I wrote everything down to kind of car, car, car correspond the pictures. So that's a quick question. OK, so how many cars do you propose to park two cars? Yeah, the one that's near the curb is mine. And the one across the street is mine. Okay, do you have a photo from the curb cut to the house? I think it's to the back. Oh, yes. Okay. Right. So this is where I was going to comment that it seems like it's already, the work has been already done. There's, you know, gravel. Nothing was driveway and that's what drive way. So it seems like, so what are we extending? So so basically you're coming in to legalize something that was already there. No, no, what I want is to extend it on the on the right side of the house where the sun room is. If you continue to scroll down, I just basically want to kind of illustrate everything for you. This is where I want to park my cars. Okay. I see. I see. So then it would basically almost be front yard parking. Well, that's the side of the house. That's not a front yard. Yeah, that's side yard park. That's the side of the house. That's the back of the house. That's the side back. So my question to you then is if you park like this, how will you exit? You will, you will have to do a back out into the street in addition to making the turn versus a straight back out. So you know, no, no, I mean, I mean with one car, you know, with one car in a driveway, if I, if I back into the into that space. It's not going to interfere with anything. I mean, because my driveway in front of the garage is already there, I just want to extend it off to the side because simply, simply, it's going to be easier for me in a winter time because right now, the cars are in front of one another and it's difficult in a winter time for me to try to, you know, if I want to drive a vehicle, if I want to drive one, this way, if one is parked off to the side, then at least I can, I can exit one without a problem. And if I want to drive another car, just move that one out, it's not going to be in the way of anything because I had. Okay, so let me just ask you clearly. So your goal is to have one car parking the existing driveway and what and room in the side yard for an additional car right. Okay, so you basically want to park them like a T or an L. Okay, so given that my question is whether you need to have this much space dug up for your parking. I would like that much space only because that's what I want. Okay, because we have to balance that against how it's going to affect the neighborhood, okay. So, you know, I think that's what I want to say about the neighborhood. I think that's what I want to say about the neighborhood. No, I got it, I got it, but we have to take a step back and look at what it means, you know, from a great, from a bigger perspective. So any, to give us this information. And we've heard from. So everybody muted. What did the BPD a recommend on this? The BPD a recommended a deferral. The plans submitted to be paid in 2019, do not show Leah and dimensions of a new parking space. And so the reason was to have a deferral and to actually have an accurate survey plot plan of what the applicants proposing. So then it comes to the. And Madam chair, this was back on July 14. So the BPD a didn't see this after it was deferred. Yeah, and. And Bob's recommendation is from August. Did you say that's correct. August 12. Because I'm wondering if we can do approval with provides. So limiting the space in that L that we have in the building in front of us to exactly the size of a parking spot. And I think that's correct. Do you think that work, Miss better baraza? I. I don't find the typology very similar to the side street. So I'm not, I'm not in favor. Madam chair, Mr. Jimmy go does say it's fine. Yeah, I. Yeah, okay. So. So it's not. It's not. It's a side yard parking. How can we get a resolution to this? Um. Trying to be see if we can come up with anything that will. Meet the residents needs, but also not eat too much into into the yard. Madam chair, I would make a suggestion that we may be put this in front of the full board. If we do do something here, then someone else will want to do the same thing. That's that's smart. So may I have that motion? I'll make that motion for the pearl to the full board. Okay. Miss better baraza. I like him. I like to second that, but encouraged the applicant when they come to the full board to have an accurate server plot plan. Okay. Fortune. I. I think it's not a good idea to have that. I think it's not a good idea to have that. Madam Barraza. I. Arrouge all. Support. Can you give us a date? Please Mr. For. Madam chair, I think it's all going to hit you palm with Ms. Barraza just said. Can they get an accurate plot plan that we could actually all take a look at because we could put on for Tuesday. But I don't know how accurate. We wouldn't have that. Okay. They're going to have the same question. Yeah. All right. So let's do the same questions. We can do. Okay. Okay. One other one other recommendations to have the applicant just kind of. To have an informal conversation with B. T. Yeah. Okay. So we can do October first. 11.30. Okay. So. I'm sorry. October 4. Okay. So Ms. Times. We will see you on October 4th at 11.30. Okay. I'm sorry. Do I have to come up. Do I have to come up with new. A new plot plan. I mean, I have a plot plan. I. Hold on. Hold on. So this is what we're trying to talk to you because they're trying to see how to make this work. So we recommend one that you talk to the Boston Transportation Department. Very specifically to Mr. Bob Dameco. And we're going to talk to Mr. DeMico. And we're going to talk to Mr. DeMico. That's one thing. And the second thing is. That you know that you've measured this out. But if you could have somebody do it as an official. As an official plan. That would be very helpful to us. Yeah. But that's going to cost me too much money to do a survey. Okay. So. Okay. And we're going to make sure that you talk to Mr. Mr. Dameco. And we are recommending that you get a survey. It's up to you. But we will see you regardless on October 4th at 1130. Okay. Thank you. See you then. Calling the next case. Calling B.O.A. 1 3.4. 3.1.2.0 330. K. I'm sorry. Hold on to. I'm. Hold on. Hold on. This is to extend the driveway to park. I'm sorry. It's the wrong one. Hold on. This is to add a roof deck with head house. The violation. Article 68 section 29. Roost structure restrictions and article 68 section 8. The billing height is excessive. Name and address for the record. Terran bone and I'm the architect representing my client at 330 K street unit 2. And it's a, it's a. It's a two family and it's on our occupied. Okay. So tell us what's being proposed first. And tell us why you've been deferred. Sure. So we're proposing a roof deck. What you see there is is was to kind of show the button is where were located and not our roof deck proposal. So if you continue on in the plans. You'll see it'll get to the roof deck proposal. We deferred for a butter outreach. Okay, so tell us what page we need to get to to see the the deck. Is this it? Yes, this is the deck. So this would be from behind. So you're kind of in the alley between the property behind case street and it we wanted to tuck it. Tuck it back and tuck it away from the street. So it's actually not visible from the street at all unlike the the two on either. So tell us what is this white box that we're seeing what is the head house. If you go to the next image, it's much clearer. So that's the head house coming up from the top floor to the roof deck. And have you explored hatch alternatives because this board generally is not an approval of head houses much more friendly to hatches. We I was on the last meeting and did hear that we did not change the design. We, you know, the two on either side both have head houses. If you do go to the very first images, you'll see. So the thing is we can't gauge by what's happening around you because we don't know how many of those are legal and not. So the projects that we look at we need to be very precise about a message to you as to you on behalf of the applicant. Sure. I mean, we would prefer to have a head house, but obviously if you're, you know, if you make us do something. Got it. Got it. Okay. Is how are the plans must better barize up? Madam chair, the plan should add up. Is anybody here to speak either in support or an opposition of this proposal? I'm sure members of the board, Connor Newman with the mayor's office neighborhood services are off the cell in the butter's meeting on June 2nd. It was attended by a number of a butters. There was a lot of concerns raised and opposition from neighbors due to the concerns with noise that exists in the neighborhood as well as parties that have already occurred at that property. The mayor has asserted that the owner does not occupy that space. It's not owner occupied the gate of heaven neighborhood association opposed to project as well. We received five letters of opposition regarding a proposal with that we defer to the board. Thank you. Madam chair secretary, we have those letters. The mayor's office spoke up. Madam chair, I have two raised hands here. I'll start with Anna. Can you stage your name and address for the record, please. Madam chair members of the board and a call their own from council president flings office. The councilor would like to go on record in opposition to this proposal. Proof that has been a long source of logic. Loud noise. At all hours, the servants and trash removal issues for several years in the area. The process of express opposition to the proposed proof that can indicate that renting up for another group that in the neighborhood will not terribly impact the quality of life. Thank you. Thank you. I'm saying can you say to name an address for the record, please. Hi, can you hear me? Yes. Okay. My name is Christine Donnellan. I'm I live at 347 K street, but diagonal away from 330 K. I was in the butter's meeting on June 2nd also. I'm also a mother, but I have a mother bought it for his young son that's in their 20s and the police have been called multiple times for parties and noise violations. So I believe having giving them a roof deck would violate any of the families that live around there. We have a ton of young families and children, and they're very noisy. So I don't think that they need a roof deck to have outdoor parties in. Okay. Okay. So given that information, may I have a motion? I jump in quickly. This is David Lenthart also with the project team. With Wilson, where did he possible to jump in? David, you know, we were relying on Terran, Terran bone to give the presentation. So give us some, put your name and address on the record and give us a quick, presentation on this. Yes. David Lenthart, Wilson, stores at 400 Atlantic. And just a couple of thanks to mention that it is, it's on a family owned. And there are two members of the family in the unit. And the family owns it is open to addressing noise concerns with provisos as to quiet hours. And so, you know, David, thank you for that. However, it just sounds like there has been continuous problems that in fact, there should not be a need to put in quiet hours in a residential neighborhood. It's that you kind of, you know, have your ears and eyes open to know what's happening around you and to understand if there are young families or not. So I thank you for trying. But in the meantime, let's mute everybody and go to a motion. Madam chair, I'd like to put forward a motion of denial without prejudice. And I'm going to second that motion. Fortune. I better, Baraza. I. Arao Joe also. I so the motion carries. Thank you. Madam chair, I'm going to go back to a case we called earlier on 10 costs and I'm going to call it back into the record calling DOA. 126, 5152 10 costs in street. This was an asphalt paved driveway with three. 3 vehicles. Paid of the driveway in front of the house, let the help, let the outside car will be easier. This paved driveway is not for parking purposes by a list that will 65 section 41 are street parking and loading and article 65 section 9 side yard is insufficient. Turn the storage down. Two service pouches on a job public office. To enm It<|nl|> Asher. pull them up please whoever's manning the screen. No, I'm talking to the staff from my SD to see if they found the revised plans. At this top, I did look into the system there. There's a set of drawings which show three parking spaces, but I don't know if that was actually the view by ISD. This is the set of drawings that they would use at Stanford Board. I just have a one-part make face. Okay, so I'm sorry, ma'am. Let's, we have you on the record. Maybe we have a deferral to the next meeting so that we do everything correctly. We don't, we don't want to approve you, ma'am, and then have you come back because there's an issue that we did not see. Okay, so we'd rather just clear this up. I'm going to make a motion for the deferral for the 915 September 15 meeting at 5pm. So 9. I second. Not I too am in support. So it's so fortunate. Better Baraza. I. Around you. I. So we'll, we will see you on September 15 at 5 o'clock. Okay. And we'll make sure that everything's been reviewed in the meantime. Thank you, everybody. The meeting is now adjourned. Right. Thank you. Come on.