 you you let's do a roll column of some bridge please talk to Mr Connolly this phenomenon the that Looks like we need to give it a minute. Since we're singing two people. Right, this panato and this butter, the razz, uh... Okay. Yeah. Yeah. Would there be any passing parts in this garden? Ah, so I spoke. I hope we have taken this opportunity. to run ten. I guess I'm folks confused. I need one else in the other. If I hear any of that, I need section right now, and you need to be elevated to a panelist. Please raise your hand. We just want to make sure folks are in the right spot before we get started. If you are presenting or I see you're presenting at some point to be elevated to a panelist, please feel free to raise your hand. We're sending the messaging with chat. I'm going to start with the panelist. I'm going to start with the panelist. I'm going to start with the panelist. I'm going to start with the panelist. I'm going to start with the panelist. I'm going to start with the panelist. I'm going to start with the panelist. I'm going to start with the panelist. I'm going to start with the panelist. Okay, well, Ms. Panato back. We're just doing roll call, Ms. Panato. Present. Okay, well, I'm just, there we go. Can we, Ms. Bervazov? Present. Okay, let's proceed, Mr. Stumberidge. Yes, Madam Chair. Moving on to the rediscussion, schedule 4, of 130. Case B, 1-5-3-37-84. With the address of 152 Washington Street, if the applicant and all the representatives are present, will their committee explain the case to the board? Yes, thank you, Mr. Stumberidge. Good afternoon, Madam Chair. Members, the board, my name is George Marietta. I'm the attorney of the business address of 350 West Broadway. Madam Chair, members, this matter was deferred in order to a wild for it to be re-advertised. I represent Tim Leigh and Orange Vaughan, who are posing a change of occupancy of the building in 150 to Washington Street in Brighton, on a two-family maroon. You wait, three-family dwelling in conjunction with complete renovation of the building. This will occur through an inter-reconfiguration of the building with no expansions or additions to the structure. This is a proposed addition. There is a proposed addition of living space, not to include any bedrooms, as well as three storage units to the basement level of the building, as noted on sheet A1, which follows. Successively, sheet A2 shows first floor conditions where an existing two-bedroom unit would be renovated in a three-bedroom unit, a lot of 168 square feet. This will be the first floor of the building, a three-bedroom unit, where sheet A3 shows the second floor with the existing two-bedroom unit also will be renovated in a three-bedroom unit, a lot of 140. The first floor of the building, a four-bedroom unit will be the floor. The fourth floor of the building, a three-bedroom unit, a very big, one-bedroom unit, a three-bedroom unit, a 122 square feet. as well as minor changes, the doors and windows as depicted on the elevation sheets. With respect to zoning, this is a 2,000 to 5,000 zoning sub-district, meaning that proposed three family use requires a variance, as the EVDA recommendation knows this section of Washington Street is characterized by a mix of two family, three family, and multi-family dwellings making those use consistent with neighborhood conditions. This violation is cited twice on the refusal letter, which is clearly an oversight by ISD. There is a violation for insufficient off-street parking. The building does have an existing curb cut in driveway with all parking spaces in the rear, but under Article 51, five parking spaces are required for three units. Finally, there's a cited violation of insufficient water-pungage, I believe, this violation to be cited in error, since this is not proposed in new construction, which would trigger a lot with advantage requirements. Nor is there advantage requirement, different advantage requirement under the coast, where three family dwellings as opposed to a two family dwelling. This fact is also noted in the EVDA recommendation. With that, Madam Chair, I'll pause and take any questions that four members may have. Thank you, Mr. Mines. Any questions from the board? Hearing none, may I have public testimony? Yes. Hello, Madam Chair, I'm from support Frank Mendoza, Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. Our office is in the butters, convening for this project on November 6, 2023. We did not have any butters and attendance. We did have one attendee from the larger Brighton neighborhood and one attendee from the City Councilor's Office of D9. But we didn't hear any concerns or any questions from any butters. The applicant did go before the Brighton Hospital's improvement association, their zoning chair, Annabelle Holmes, should be going to test by their stance. That said, we'd like to defer to the judgment of the board at this time. Thank you. Thank you. Steve? Well, my name is Steve Gunsberger. I own a home in 79 Clay Moss Road, which is diagonally behind this proposed switch to family, three family housing, three family housing. I want to go on record to say I'm in post. I am opposed to this. This allowance, I think, as it is, the faculty want the area is very tight. Across from this unit, across from this house of Washington, they've converted the monastery into hundreds of apartments. The units would do have parking, but because they charge for parking, the parking has become nearly unavailable. Adding bedrooms to these apartments will add more people and additionally add more cars. There's an adequate parking of as it is, and I am opposed to adding any more to the unit should be allowed to be non-conforming, three family, but most of the homes in the area are too family conformable. Thank you. Just go, there are any other raised hands? No raised, I wish we were raised hands. Okay, any other questions from the board? Hearing none, may I have a motion? I mean, just close with the government. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Stambridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Fransa. Yes. Mr. Valencia. The column. Yes. Mr. Panato. Yes. Chair votes, yes. The motion carries. Thank you. And? I wish it's a bit. Next, we have case of the away. One, five, four, seven, three, four, five. The adios of 1457, the death of your parkway. This is a cannabis case. Would the applicant and other representatives have a close with point? In the presence of the one for this proposal? Yes. Mr. Valencia, the death case. Mr. Valencia, are you on for this case? 1457, the death of your parkway? Yes, I am. Can we hear me? We can now. Please proceed. Doctor Shalai, are you going to proceed? Trying to unmute. I don't know if you can hear me, though. We can, ma'am. OK, good, good. Hi. I'm an in Shalai Armshung. Thank you, Madam Chair and other members of the board. For having us today, we are proposing a cannabis delivery and manufacturing facility located at 1457, the FW Parkway. The reason that we're coming before the board today is because we are in breach of the buffer zone, which is 0.5. So we had a traffic study done to show the path from our facility to the next facility. And that is around an immovable object, which is immediate in the middle. So when you go around it, you can see the dotted lines. From our facility to theirs, and that's 0.42. So that's the way here for it. Oh, this is happening. We're asking for a variance. Yes. Questions from the board? I have a no. I have a no. Oh, I'm sorry. I miss very good no. No further questions. OK, thank you. With that, ma'am, public testimony? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, a car inhuman with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. At this time, the mayor is also to first the judge from this board, own associate community in muting, where the applicant was able to address questions that community members had. And other attendees were in support of the proposal. They went on to meet with the West Roxbury neighborhood council. I believe twice before the West Roxbury and the council offered their support for this proposal. With that, I would refer to the board at this time. Thank you. Thank you. Can you have no reasons? OK. Any other questions from the board? Hearing none, ma'am, a motion? Motion to approve. Ma'am, second? Second. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Mr. Bervazza? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Mr. Panato? Yes. Chair votes yes. Motion carries the block. Thank you. We're going to do that. We'll do that. Next, we have Katie Spioway. Mr. Stembridge, do you want to go? On a go? The withdrawal? And the first? Yes. We will ask. We will ask for any withdrawals of the first from the 1-5-hour. Hearing no requests for withdrawals from the 1-5-hour, or withdrawals of the first, we'll run back to 1130, 4-case field wave, 1-5-5-0-1-0-7, with the address of 451 East 7th Street, if the applicant can't get the address there, represent the present with the age 24. Yes. Thank you, Mr. Stembridge. Madam Chair, I'm going to the board. Attorney Ryan Smith, Adam Zomeransi, with the business address of 168th Street, first floor. So Boston, I'm here on behalf of the applicant and joining me today also is the Project Architect, Eric Zaperson. This is a proposal to change the occupancy from a three-family dwelling to a four-family dwelling by renovating the basement into a two-bedroom unit. The front of the basement is at grade, but gradually slopes down to a full walk out in the rear. The post design is staying within the existing footprint of the entire building, and all renovations of the property will be interior for this unit. The proposal is located within an MFR sub-district in the property consists of approximately 1,755 square feet, which creates two violations, one for lot size and additional lot size. Majority of the lots along East 7th Street are non-conforming with both lot size and additional lot area per dwelling unit. If we could go through all perfect, this is Page Street, we can leave it right here. The basement unit will consist of a two-bedroom, one bathroom, and an open contact kitchen. The existing entrance rate in the rear yard will be relocated and replaced with an egress window. There will also be another egress window located in the rear. Also, there are new entrants from an interior stairway on the main floor, as well as the entrance, a new main entrance in the rear of the property as well. We have additional violations for FAR's success of the proposed FAR as a 2.2 as we are capturing the basement space, and a 2.0 is what is compliant. There was an administrative error on the plans relating to the proposed FAR. The existence of square footage is exactly 2,952 square feet and with the addition of 910 square feet for the basement unit of Habitville basement space amongst the 3,862, which equates to a 2.2 proposed FAR. In the last violation that we do have, is insufficient parking required to provide 1.5 parking spaces per new unit of housing, but unfortunate is probably doesn't have any ability to offer parking on site. However, it is a two-minute walk to the bus stop and is aligned with the bus to transportation departments, parking maximum ratio of guidelines in 2020. And at this point, I'm going to turn it over to the board for any questions or comments. Okay. Any questions from the board? Very glad, but I'll call for testimony. And then Madam Chair, I'm present the board of Lydia Plasky with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. And a butter's meeting was hosted on January 10th during that time no concerns were voiced. Our office received one letter of opposition in relation to scarcity of on-street parking. Aside from that, our office is unaware of any additional concerns with its proposal. We would like to refer to the judgment of the short this time. Thank you. Good afternoon Madam Chair, as members of the board, this is Laura speaking for a cost office at this moment, cost office will feel like we all recommend support based on a good community process. Cost office will respectfully request that their proponent work closely with the neighbors at the CBC Group. On any quality of life issues I may arise during the construction phase. Thank you. Here. So, Richard? Richard, do you have any respect for money? Yes. Have no additional right here. Here. What's that? We have motion. I motion motion motion, what was BPD in this area? Is there a second? Second. Second. Mr. Lawrence, Mr. Stubbridge? Yes. Mr. Lawrence, yes. Yes. Mr. Berrazo? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Mr. Panagam? Yes. Mr. Rotes, yes. Motion carries. Great. Thank you. The next case has been deferred. So we move on to the case BOA 148, 6245, the address of 1260 oilstone street. It's the opposite to the representative of the president of the English dining room. Can you raise your hand if you're on for this proposal? We see how the race stands. I do not. Okay, then I say we keep going and come back if they show up. I'll be going to the 1pm, then after this. We have. Okay. Then with that, we can go to the 1pm here. And we'll ask for case BOA 156, 5948, the address of 196 of each street. 50 applicants. Everybody's done a presentation with their employees. We'll be going to the board. Good afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the board. Attorney John P. Well, Jeannie on behalf of the applicant, Tony Farah, who was with me today. 196 feet street in Rosendale, the zoning in this neighborhood is 1 family, 6,000. And a lot size is 5,984 square feet. This proposal is to build a single family home with four beds to an app that's approximately 25 hundred square feet on what it is in an hour vacant lot. The dwelling will include a garage that will hold two cars. The new building will fit seamlessly with the existing neighborhood context in this one family, 6,000 sub district. The parcel is about about on three sides by three story single family dwellings. The neighborhood at large is comprised of predominantly single family homes as well. The project is undergone an extensive community process with the proponent meeting with the aboters and neighborhood residents twice privately, allowing them to give an input and shape the project and what is being presented to the board today. This includes accommodating the neighbors requests that the building front yard set back aligned with the existing home at 200 feet street. It's worth noting that initially there was no violation for existing building and for this was done at the request of the immediate butters. The proponent has held a formal letters meeting with on us with the project's final form was well received and had an enormous support from our participants. And all this is 18 feet short of the 6,000 square feet requirement and only two and a half feet short on width. And this again is consistent with many other properties in this neighborhood. In addition to the support of the ONS meeting, we also submitted eight letters to support from the immediate butters. Happy to answer any questions. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Hearing none, they have public testimony. Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board will call on or do them with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. This time the mayor's office, I could defer to the judgment this board some back information, the community process on us hosting the butters meeting on February 22nd. Those in attendance were appreciated over the work that the applicant had done prior that meeting with meeting with many of butters and sitting down to discuss what they would like to see out of the project. Residents expressed admiration for the landscaping plan as well as the orientation of the building on the bottom land itself after numerous conversations. We're unaware of any concerns at this time. We'd like to defer to the judgment this board. Thank you. Thank you. I'm going to try out nobody's. Let me have a motion. And chair elected before our motion approval. We have a second. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Yeah. Okay. Mr. Relatio. Yes. It's better. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Canado. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. The motion carries. Thank you very much, everyone. Next we have case. Be the way 154. 08888. The address of 53 for 57 Margaret Street. That's the applicant and more than represent the president with their respective case to report. Good afternoon. Now, I'm chair members of the board. My name is Matt Mueller. Fewer. Architecture located 53 each harbor street. We are the owners and representative of the advocate of the neighboring property of 53 each harbor street. This is a very simple project. Basically, we own the building at 53 H adjacent to 53 57 and their land wraps around behind us. We have a small architecture. I was on the first floor and we are just proposing to purchase that little approximately 1200 square feet of land behind the property just to use as open green space and garden space. Thank you. Questions from the board? Hearing none and a public testimony. Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor, New and with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This time, the mayor's office is referred to the judgment that's board. The butter's meeting was held on February 28th. There was no one in attendance. We want to wear many concerns at this time. I understand they rescheduled the local civic association, which was supportive of its proposal. Without the efforts of the board. Thank you. Madam Chair, I have to. Oh, some side by your guide. Just to clear it by, is it a project for... This is 53 to 57 Harwood Street. Okay. They're just putting in a budding small piece of land. Yes, our office would like this. Office of Poets and Sponsors, as you may be civic in, also on this board. Thank you. With that, may I have a motion? Motion of the BBGA designer, will. May I have a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Mr. Brasso? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. No. Yes. Chair, motion carries. Madam Chair, Madam Chair, this is Sam. I apologize. Further record? Would we be able to have what office Brian is from in representing? Sure, but Brian, can you state your affiliation? Absolutely, my apologies. I was trying to forget. But my name is I am a day of the movie from the office. City Council of Brian Warrell. Thank you. Thank you very much, Madam Chair. All right. Thank you. Next, we have case B.O.A. 157-5505, with the address of 151 Townsend Street. The Algoncate and the Avro, they represent his parents. And they're going to the board for it. Yes, Mr. Stembridge. Good afternoon, Madam Chair. I'm Mr. Board of Attorney Derek Small, of the Business Adjustment Office of One-Doption Road. And today, we're here seeking relief. The change in legal occupancy of the building from a two-family dwelling to four residential units. Here, the Zoni-Sup District is at 3F-4,000. Our lot size is 7,730 square feet. And the violations are as follows. With regard to open space, we are required for 615-per-unit. We have a 633 per unit. The sub-probiting use consists of 3F-discrict and we are proposing four residential units. The FAR, required FAR is 0.8 and we are proposing 0.99. And our SIO violation is a 10-foot requirement and our eight-foot proposed and that's a pre-existing nonconforming use. Madam Chair, all of the work being done here is interior to the building. The units will consist of two two bedroom, one-half bath at 1450 square feet. And two three bedroom, three bath at 1550 square feet. Madam Chair, we are proposing living space in the basement and I will tell you that the basement floor ceiling height is eight-foot two inches and we are proposing to sprinkle the building. If you can scroll down Madam Ambassador to the rear elevations, you can see that a good portion of, go down one more rack, you have right there, straight. Up one right there, a good, if you zoom out a little bit more so we can get the bottom two, a good portion of the lower level is above grade or it exposes out into the rear yard and then is above the grade of the house. With that, I'll stop and we can take any questions that board members may have. Thank you Mr. Small, any questions from the board? I'm a testimony by, is this a walkout basement? Yes, in the rear it is a walkout. That's a door there? Yes it is. Any other questions from the board? Okay, may I have public testimony? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board of the Conor and the McMayers Office of Neighborhood Services. This time the mayor is off-site to defer to the judgment of this board. To back information, the community process and the bothers being was held on November 20th, that went well, the applicant went on to the Garrison Trotter Neighborhood Association, which offered their support to this proposal. I would doubt defer to the board at this time. Thank you. Thank you. Madam. We're going to get, you look to make your testimony. All right. Let's go outside. Please hand down, thank you. Are you speaking? No, I apologize. I think my hand was the pillar from last case. Thank you. Any, was that mayor's motion? I'm chairing to put for a motion of approval. That can be. Thank you, Mr. Stubbridge. Yes. Mr. Ranzia. Yes. Mr. Berbaza. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Panato. Yes. There are also votes. Yes, the motion carries. Thank you, Madam Chair. I was the board. Good day. Next, we have case bill rate, 153, 8643, with the address of four in Demonstrie. If the applicant and roll near the representative's truck, will they explain this? Yes, Madam Chair and board members, my name is Sam Dennis and I'm representing the atinic center. They have a, a Victorian building that they have been, they're requesting a medical use, which is an allowable use, which is conditional on your agreement. They have been using this building as a clinical building recently. It has a temporary occupancy, but ISD has been leaning on us to formalize as a permanent occupancy and we're hoping that you'll agree, but that's reasonable. Yeah. Any questions from the board? Hearing none, we have public testimony. Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, I'm honored, even with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This time, the Mayor's Office has deferred to the judgment of this board, some back information in the community process. Owens had an abutters being on January 16th, or the applicant was able to answer questions that the neighbors had. The applicant then went on to meet with the Garrison Trotter Neighborhood Association, as well as the Eglison Square Neighborhood Association, both vocalize strong support to granting this variance as they believe it provides an important community service by allowing the continued expanded service to the treatment of substance abuse. Without the deferred to the board at this time, thank you. Here. And, Madam Chair, I have no resistance. Would that be a motion? Motion without the water. Now, the second. Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ah, Mr. Beter-Raza. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Panato. Yes. Chair also votes yes. The motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Next, we have case 081547905. With the address of 120 vocalized avenue. This is a, this is a cannabis case. If the applicant and the, and the other representative, which blankly. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. My name is Attorney Alexis Kuchuk. My address is one state street, Boston, Mance. And I am here with the management team of Fenway cannabis company. I realize that everybody on this zoo, especially the board members have been seeing a lot of proposals today. And it's been a long day. This is a long presentation, but I can probably quickly summarize this. 120 vocalized avenue was one of the originally cited cannabis establishments in the city of Boston back in 2019. It has been open for over three years. The current situation before us is because the ownership at 120 vocalized avenue is changing. So the old owners are turning off the light and the new owners are turning it on. The new ownership team is a Massachusetts based cannabis company. They are experienced operators. They were approved by the CCC for this change of ownership in November of 2023. But because cannabis is such a new industry, we've re initiated the process not only with the Boston cannabis board, but also with the inspeccional services. There will be no significant changes proposed for this site. District City Councilor Durkin has submitted a letter of support for this proposal as have a budding businesses. And there was no objections raised during the public community meeting normal for the Boston cannabis board. Happy to discuss in more specifics, but there's just a wealth of information regarding security cameras and staffing and other models that have already come before this board generally our presentation for you is just a new applicant and company. And again, they have passed background checks with the state and are already operating in other parts of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. And just to confirm no one will provide a correct. No, so just remove the provide that says for this applicant already. Okay, thank you. That's what I asked. Okay, any questions from the board? Here in 9 May I put the testimony. Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor Newman with the Marysoft's and the neighborhood services. The sign of Marysoft's deferred to the judgment this board is here from the applicant's representation. Are those lengthy community outreach run aware of any concerns this time without deferred to the board? Thank you. Thank you. Any of the reasons that I am. We're not gonna have motion motion to the rules is the second. Thank you. Mr. Stubborn. Yes, Mr. Valencia. Yes, Mr. Brasow. Yes, Mr. Collins. Yes, Mr. Spanado. Yes. Chair also votes yes motion carries. Thank you for your service. Next we have case. The only 157 5468. The address of 350 350 to handle the street. If the applicant and the representative is present, will they explain? Yes, thank you, Mr. Stembridge. Thank you, Madam Chair. Mr. Board of Attorney Jeff Dregor with Dregor in Tuscanyl with the business address of 11 Beacon Street. Here on behalf of Jeff from Madaraz of the owner of Locale restaurant in the north end. The proposal before you was to change the occupancy and you're looking at the building existing conditions. On this picture here at 350 and 350 to handle the street from two apartments of Barbara shop and existing pizza shop that is what Locale is now. Two two apartments and full restaurant and extending the restaurant to at 350 to handle the street. It's a pretty straightforward proposal. This falls within the Hanover community commercial district. So it is within a commercial corridor. And as part of the proposal Locale is an existing pizza and has a very good idea and does have bear line and cordials. They are looking to expand their seating to small space of 600 square feet in change. And this would give them about 1300 square feet. If we go to the further plans, Madam Ambassador, yeah, right here is perfect. As you can see, there would be a connection between the walls. There was an existing barbershop on the left commercial space and that would be converted to give them more space. It would have additional seating, a bar area, some high tops, a few tables. And it would give them a white kitchen area for food preparation and also to put the bathrooms both on one side and really would allow them to expand their. Their business which has been growing over the last 10 years. There were two zoning violations that recited. It's nonconforming use change because we would be extending and existing nonconforming use. And then restaurant with takeout on the first story is conditional. And with that, I can pause and answer any questions of the board. They have all of the work would be interior work and aside from windows and doors. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Hearing none, we have public testimony. Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Conor and them with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This time the Mayor's Office refers to the judge of this board. Oh, and I saw some of the voters meeting on February 21st. The applicant then went on to meet with New Rock and New Niggie, the two active civic groups in the area, both voted to support this proposal. Without the deferred to the board at this time, thank you. And, Madam Chair, I have no raise hands. Thank you. With that, I have a motion. I'll continue to approve. Second. Second. Second. Mr. Stambridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Betapaza. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Ms. Panato. Yes. Yes. Yes, the motion carried. Thank you very much. Thank you. Are we circling back to 1260 Boston? About a chair we've reached out to the applicant's beautiful and handsome male. We have heard anything back in the meeting yet. Okay. So, may I have a motion to, I think, is it denied without prejudice to the month of that make sense? You can either wait a minute chair that's places up to you in the morning. I will leave it up to the most person who makes the motion. May I have a motion? I will move into the night without prejudice. I will. Second. Second. Mr. Stambridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Betapaza. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Ms. Panato. Yes. There are votes. Yes. Motion carries. Thank you. Do you have everyone? Yes. You are. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.