 you you Excuse us. The city of Boston zoning board repeal hearing for March 10 2026 is now in session this hearing is being conducted in accordance with the applicable provisions of the open meeting law separating the updated provisions provisions enacted by the legislature this year. The new law allows the board to continue its practice of holding virtual hearings through June, 2027. This hearing of the board is being held remotely via the Zoom webinar event platform and is also being live streamed. In order to ensure this hearing of the board is open to the public, members of the public may access this hearing through telephone and video conferencing. The information for connecting to this hearing is listed on today's hearing agenda, which is posted on the public notices page of the city's website, Boston.gov. Members of the public will enter the virtual hearing as attendees, which means you will not see yourself on the screen and you will be muted throughout unless administratively unmuted when asked to comment. Board members, applicants and their attorneys or representatives will participate in this hearing, in the hearing as panelists, and they will appear alongside the presentation materials when speaking. Panelists are strongly encouraged to keep video on while presenting to the board. As with our in-person meetings, comments and support will be followed by comments and opposition. The order of comments is as follows, elected officials, representatives, elected officials, and members of the public. The chair may limit the number of people called upon to offer comment and the time for commenting is time constraints require. For that reason, the board prefers to hear from members of the public who are most impacted by a project that is those individuals who live closest to the project. If you wish to comment on an appeal, please click the raise hand button along the bottom of your screen in the Zoom webinar platform. Click it again and your hand should go down. When the host sees your hand, you will receive a request to unmute yourself. So yes, and you should be able to talk. If you are connected to the hearing by telephone, please press star nine to raise and lower your hand. You must press star six to unmute yourself. After you receive the request from the host, those called upon to comment will be asked to state their name and address first and then can provide their comment. In the interest of time and to ensure that you have enough time to do so. So please raise your hand as soon as Mr. Stembridge reads the address into the record. Do not raise your hand before the relevant address is called or the meeting host will not know to call on you at the appropriate time. We ask that you keep your comments brief and all public testimony will be limited to 90 seconds per speaker. Mr. Stembridge. Good morning, Madam Chair. Hello. Mr. Valencia. Morning, Madam Chair. Good morning. Good morning. Mr. Langham. Good morning, Madam Chair. President. Good morning. Ms. Weow. Good morning, Madam Chair. President. Good morning. Ms. Turner. Good morning, Madam Chair. President, and I apologize for advance my video. I thought it's written out, but it's not functioning so. I will be off camera. No worries, technology. Love it or hate it. Mr. Bridal. Good morning, Madam Chair. President. Good morning. What are your worries, Mr. Stembridge? Thank you, Madam Chair. We begin today with your approval of hearing masks. Schedule for 930. These are, these are from the hearings of February 12th and February 24th on this year. I will make a motion of approval. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yep. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Ms. Weow. Yes. Ms. Turner. Yes. Mr. Bridal. Yes. Chair votes yes. The motion carries. Next we have the extensions scheduled for 930. And I will read all of the extensions prepared reasonable. So I would read them in one after the other and we'll take a vote on them, ask, have any questions, Madam Chair, and then take a vote on them, ask. We begin with case BOA 113-3499 with the address of 117 coverage street. Next we have case BOA 1333102 with the address of 426 Wendell Park. Next we have case BOA 107-4303 with the address of 99 to 105 Firm on Avenue. Next we have case BOA 1507-8 930 with the address of 1809 to 1813 to adjust the revenue. And final extension for today is case BOA 1527713 with the address of 112 to 114 Chelsea Street. Those are the extensions for today. Thank you. Any questions from the board? May I have a motion to grant the extensions as requested? May I have a second? Back in. Just average. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Mr. Buehwell. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Bruno. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Bruno. Yes. Chair votes, yes. The motion carries. Next we have a groundwater conservation overlaid there. The groundwater conservation overlaid there. Case scheduled for 930 AM. This is case BOA 213655 with the address of 4 Hane Street. It's the applicant and with their representative. President, would they please explain the case to the board? Good morning Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is Dominic Kapola. I'm an attorney at Traco in Discono. LLP representing this property. We're asking for deferral for this property in March 24th. The next ZBA hearing date. We've already been approved to be heard on that date. Motion. Are you in the water supply? Okay. Can you just clarify why? Yes. So we have a fund in Arbiter going on on the 24th and new violations being heard. So we just ask from the all be heard in the same date. Okay. Is there a motion? Motion to defer this case until March 24th. Second. Second. Mr. Stambridge. No. Mr. Volansio. Yes. Mr. Lyon. Yes. Is we well? Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Bonnell. Yes. Chair Volans yes. Motion carries. See you then. Thank you. Next. We have a building code case. It was 9.30 am. This is case B.O.A. 1.A.1. 3.62.2. With the address of 86 Pembroke Street. If the applicant and their representative present will they please fund to the boy. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board. Mark LeCast. LeCast law. 177 Huntington Avenue in Boston. I represent the owner of this property in James and Brown. And also on the hearing is Mark Van Brockland, our architect of record from M.Bark. The single family home renovation has already commenced and has been underway, pursuing to a long form permit that was issued. The amendment to that permit regarding access to the roof deck which has already been approved by the South and landmarks commission. The sole issue before you today is as shown right here on the screen. Access to the roof deck is proposed to be via a hatch. In this case presents the familiar anomaly between the building code on the one hand and the zoning code and South and landmarks commission standards and guidelines on the other hand. The building code requires access to roof decks be through a penthouse, also known as a head house, and article 64-34 of the South and zoning code. And the South and landmark standards and guidelines require the access to roof decks be via a hatch. So we seek a variance from the provisions of the building code in order that we may install a hatch consistent with the zoning code and the South and landmarks commission guidelines. And that's it. Thank you so much. Any questions from the board? Hearing none. Is there a motion? For me. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Lino. Yes. Is we well? Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Brinnell. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. The motion carries. Thank you kindly. Next we'll go to the hearing schedule for 9.30 a.m. At this time we'll ask if there are any request for withdrawals or the throw from the 9.30 a.m. here. Good morning. Madam Chair, members of the board. I think we're also on behalf of the owner for 168 Dana. We're looking to request a deferral for the next ability as an updated refusal letter has been issued and needs to be reattrited. Thank you, Mr. Stembridge. Hasn't read it into record. This will be for case B.O.A. 171. The 0.4. 9.4. But the address of 168 Dana Avenue. Okay. And this one we can put on per April 16. Okay. Since the applicant already gave us their reason. Has there a motion? Motion to the third April 16th. Is there a second? Dr. Stembridge. Yeah. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. As we well. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Romell. Yes. Just the motion carries. See you then. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. One seventy five one seven two. The address of two fifty four. Bremen Street. Right. The applicant and all their representative present. Okay. Please explain to the board. Madam chair. If I may. Yes. Yes. Thank you. Madam chair. Members of the board. Jeff Anton. City of Austin Planning Department. The commissioner Jeff Thomas is having internet troubles. Right now. So he is not able to get on. So if it would be. An answer. Thomas. Yes. Okay. We will keep going and come back to. Thank you. Thank you. So with that, we'll go to case B.O.A. 180. 99938. With the address of sixty five. Street. If the applicant and all the representative present. Will they believe we should communicate to the board. Yes. Thank you. Mr. Stammer. Good morning. Madam chair. Members of the board for the record Richard Mins. Business address of two forty five. Stammer Street. He's boss. We have the petitioner. This is involving the property at sixty sixty two. Fire and Street. He's going to be working. We're going to jump down to. Have a slide. Yeah. These slides are going to start. Yeah. Perfect. So. Now, I'm sure there's a preexisting two unit dwelling. On the property. I propose a list of the most existing structure. Enter a place it with sixty residential units with six parking spaces. Figure down to the next slide. Probably gives a better view here. Yes. The existing curb cut on the right side of the property. The area that's to the movies. The right structure is all part of this parcel. We do have access rights to the left of our building for an existing driveway. And that would be used to address the parking access to the back of the property. This curb cut would be closed out in connection with the redevelopment site. Next slide, please. So you're located in the EDI three district and that of course, of course, triggered two violations from the. The special service department for all intents and purposes. This project meets all requirements under planning. Spost and amended zoning for a fixed Boston article 53. The only items that we were cited for involved the use of the property. As six units because of a lot with our position is that the use as six units is actually allowed. It's a lot with that requires 55 feet. That was a requirement that was included with the amended zoning for our 53. As the board can see, we do have a wide that is 5,000 spare feet 50 feet wide by 100. Since the amended zoning for East Boston no longer requires minimum lot size or lot with. For as of right development, the site can easily accommodate the total of six units. Three on each block. And we would not be required to do our street parking. The proposal that we've added with the neighborhood association was that. Certainly they encouraged us to consider parking on the site. And in doing so, we opted for a single building of six units, which does require parking as opposed to two separate three new buildings. Next slide, please. So you can see here from our site plan, our building does meet setback requirements for. Our front side and rear that would be consistent with the regulations for. EBR three for this neighborhood. So again, if we were to propose to stand alone three in the dwellings of the. The building of the densities and buildings exactly the same. The only difference would be we have two entranceways and not be required to do parking. And once again, I believe the neighborhood who supported this project was okay with six units. Based upon the fact that we are working next slide, please. Jump down the line during coming next slide after. So this just shows in context we are with the height minutes. So our building is three stores 35 feet. We do incorporate roof decks for the other levels. The building immediately to our left that we can see in this photo is actually a four story building. Again, we kept we kept our building in line with what the requirements for our. Article 53 from that. Just a lay out of the floors. I don't want to have to get too detailed on this next slide. Please. Just showing the roof we do provide us to buy roof decks and a little point out that the refusal that I did. Side is for room structure restrictions. As we've said in the past, we start to restrictions of vital existing building to not. Proposed new structures. So in this particular case, provided that over the height limit. We are permitted to have roof decks as a matter of right under the amended zone of release. Plus the next slide, please. Just showing the elevation to the again that we are within the height limits three stories and within 35 feet. Again, this being exactly what would be built if these were two separate buildings. We just consolidate by having a single condom stairwell as well as one. One main entrance way next slide, please. Just our elevations to the side. We do step back the lowest level that's to allow for program maneuvering from the parking area. And as I said, we do have access rights to get to the parking and the rear of the property through a shared easement to left of our building. Next slide, please. Just a weird elevation showing those about lower deck at the first level. Next slide. And then just the right side elevation. I will pause there and address any comments or questions by the board. Thank you. Quick question. The slide that you showed with the property next to it is your proposed project same height lower or taller than that one? Well, lower the building. If we would jump back to you slide, I think it's like two or three. We do have a big three view here. Yeah, you can see the building throughout the 58. Mad Chair is a four story. There are other four stories along that side of the street. We're actually below that. We get three stories in line with I-64 to our right. Thank you. Questions from the board? Madam Chair, have a question. So it seems like the number of units is conditional on the lot with their front end. So can ask why you didn't consider a three unit building? Through the share, we considered two three unit buildings. We could sub the by the lot into two 20 500 square foot locks and a right to separate three structures for total of six units. That would be by running. When we presented initially to the community, the constraint within the air was about parking. In order to be required to have parking, we would have to, you know, we would go to a single section of building that's required parking. Two separate trees do not. So in looking at this, we thought the appropriate trade-off was to incorporate the parking while making a single building, which is a much more efficient build. Thanks, Lens. I want to ask about what is your vision or the proponent's vision for open space? I'm looking at the side plan and I see that essentially, or the health in that I personally don't have any problem with the unit count. The only of the things that you are keeping is for six parking spaces in that way. So how is that going to benefit the residents who may be living in those units? So great question. So I'd say that they come up during the community process, original plan again to consider two standalone trees would have allowed that to be open space. But I think as this boards aware, the usable open space requirement has been eliminated under amended RL53. Instead, we have a lot coverage limitation as well as a permeable area of limitation. So we meet both of those. We are under the 60 percent lot coverage and we do have the minimum of 30 percent permeable area. So even though we are because of parking, we would be incorporating permeable favors as part of that solution. I'm aware of the open space requirement, but the question is about the quality of life of the residents who have only parking in cars, understood that they're to spend their free time. Have you considered reducing the parking in Rio, ranging the parking to provide at this half of the open space for the residents either? Once again, I think we originally started our conversation on this. That was our intention to not have the parking. The feedback, strong feedback from the surrounding neighborhood in this particular area, which isn't very close to public transit, was that parking was a priority for this area. So understanding that we would have preferred an open space concept of the back of property, the parking was something that was a real important issue for the neighborhood. And it is often, I'm sure, this board is aware that we actually get the support-specific groups on projects like this, the civic group actually put in favor based on this plan with the parking. Paying the question. If you read the parking during this heating, I would be able to take it out of your Sony violation. Yes, because we do propose six units in one building as opposed to two separate three unit buildings, we would trigger a violation for minimal offshoot parking because it is one per unit at six units, whereas zero for one to three units. Thank you. Thank you. Let's open it to public testimony. Hello, Madam Chairman, members of the board. My name is Eva Jones representing the Bears Office of the Neighborhood Services. Regarding sixty-barrens paid are office diverse for the board's judgment. A community process was conducted, including in a butter's meaning held on Tuesday to December 9, 2025. That was lightly attended by the members in the East Boston community. We're productive questions were asked regarding the proposal and comments were made about the project where the community felt the building was nice and fit into the neighborhood well. They did also show preference for the parking and the proposal due to the immense concerns regarding this issue in the East Boston community, not just in this meeting, but in several of my meetings in this neighborhood. I need that. Excuse me. The proposal was also reviewed by the Arbor Beam Neighborhood Association at their meeting on August 4, 2025. The Association expressed support and has voted ten in favor and said the post about the proposal and they've also provided a formal letter of support submitted to the board. At this time, the mayor's office neighbor services different sports judgment on this matter. Thanks you ever more for your time and consideration. Next without a student from to the consul Coleta. Good morning Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is Stefan from Council Coleta's about this office. We wanted to go on record and supported this project like was mentioned before from Attorney Lins. This project was supported mostly because of the parking that was included at the Harborview Neighborhood Association and for the four of us that they voted ten to seven in favor. So we would like to go and support as well with the parking included. Thank you. Thank you. Chair there are no additional comments. Any other questions from the board? May I have a motion? Madam Chair, I would like to make a motion because I believe that six units are worth nothing. I still have concerns about the use of open space for parking. I believe that housing is a human right that parking is not. But anyway, I'm going to make a motion of approval with Planet Department's review, especially attention to improving or revising the parking count and increasing the use of open space. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Ms. Weewell. Yes. Ms. Turner. Yes. Mr. Bernal. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. The motion carries. Good luck. Thank you very much. Next. Next we have case B.O.A. 1-8-1-15-19 with the address of 62 O'Leary Pools Street. If the applicant and or the representative present with the police request before. Yes. Thank you. Mr. Stembridge. Chair members of the board. Richard Lens. 245 Summars Street. He spots on the alphabetical interpretation of the curriculum development. Chair, I can just jump down to the maybe the context of slide three. Maybe one more slide. Perfect. So next to this board members this board may remember this matter was before the board. Maybe about a year and a half ago where the board approved. The construction of a new three unit residential dwelling on copper snowflake, which is the private way. This directly the wildest driver behind the building 62 liver pool. We went going through the process to see our crewables and during permitting. We were stopped by Boston fire who had an issue with the distance to be traveled along copper snowflake. The copper snowflake has sufficient with and we believed there is sufficient access for fire apparatus. They gave us a denial on authorizing any fire permit for that for that long. So instead we've abandoned that plan. And we have opted to propose an extension of existing building 62 road road poll just owned by the same party. And doing so we were cited for two items. So if we can jump down to slide seven and the site plan is part of the best place to start the conversation. So this is just for context as we get EVR for district. So this is a pre-existing section at multi-family drawing. The zoning for EVF war is actually more flexible than some of the districts. As you can see here on the site plan we do propose an addition that is set back three point eight feet I believe from what would be the left property line. And that it would be a total of some slow or seven feet for the rear property line. These dimensions are actually better than what was originally approved for the standalone three in a dwelling that would have sat in the site. And we are we believe that this addition meets with the spirit intent of the amended article 53 walk through that moment. Under article 53 in the EVR for districts. We would be required to have a rear setback of one third of the lot depth. And because we are proposing addition the existing condition that as they are today for 62 would be considered a corner lock condition. As a result, we don't necessarily apply the rear setback when looking at a car condition. We've looked at the side here at setback. We would be proposing a little of a seven feet which is about two feet more than we would be required if we were doing the standalone building as a rich and improved. In addition that 3.8 foot setback from the side yard would also be in compliance and we would point points attention to article 53 30 which is a new supervision. What that says is that we have a pre existing non conforming condition such as this one here with our building having a zero line left. We would be entitled to follow that non conforming condition providing a new course. So as the board can see we actually set it back 3.8 feet which would be a no worse than the existing condition. Therefore in compliance with article 53 30 for the side yard setback. We can jump out of the next slide we can probably show for a moment. So as you can see we do have six existing residential units in the additions that we are proposing roughly around 19 feet by 31 feet I believe. And that will offer additional how it will space better out from for each of these units. So we do also propose our roof decks and this would be in compliance with our P3 as well that we would be within the island and the setback requirements is set for the article 53. So we are going to be exclusive to those awkward level units next slide please. So we do see that we don't increase our building we maintain what's there the addition that we are proposing is strictly the near existing structure next slide please. And just a couple of other different elevation views here next slide please. Just showing our existing conditions as well. So we are relatively straightforward proposal and again just to remind the court this was approved for a standalone three and you are like that has been abandoned. The alternative is to do it in addition to the existing structure to add a little space for our increase in the number of units so there was no parking violation is triggered and everything else is completely within compliance of Article 53. I will pause there and answer the questions other board. So how big do the units become out from how many bedrooms and how many beds like single bedroom now actually I'm sorry. Yeah, I believe a single better now that would go to two better units and the addition for each unit is 30 by 20 6 times almost around just under just under 300 square feet per unit. Sorry, I think either I froze or you froze for a second so I didn't catch the original what's there originally and how to so I got the 300 square foot additions. Single single bedroom single bedroom going to two bedroom. Okay, thank you questions from the board. We also have the same number of units is to they're just getting larger as correct we don't change yes six units for me. Other questions from the board hearing none let's take public testimony. Madam chairman for the board my name is of Jones are presenting the where it's office and the board services regarding 62 Liverpool Street are office to press the board's judgment. The process was conducted including in a button is meeting held on 10 125 that was well attended by the spastic community and questions were asked about the proposal. The proposal was also reviewed by the Maverick Central neighborhood Association and they're meeting on 10 15 25 the association expressed support and voted for yes and zero knows regarding the proposal at this time. The mayor's office and the board supports the gentleman on this matter. Thank you everybody for your time and consideration. Thank you. Next we have the Stephen for the local it's morning madam chair members of the board at this time the counselor's office would like to go and support of this project. Thank you. Thank you. Is that the Christensen when they leave? Good morning madam chair members of the board Christian some not only Boston Ronald Trust and we have both chief card letters from the applicant. Thank you. Madam chair there no additional comment. Can you address the seat part issue that's raised in the. Tiring no. Second. Yeah so I believe because this is existing condition we're not proposing any. The general space below the Fee I believe that's the base and space and we're not proposing any base and for this particular addition this would be the slab on great only. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Hearing none is there motion? Motion to approve. Second. Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Roleensia. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. As we well. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Bernal. Yes. Chair votes yes the motion carries. Thank you very much. Next we have case B.O.A. 179 91116 with the address of. With the address of 12 Lowe Street. It's the applicant and or the representative of the president will that please. Sure. My name's Tim Shinn. I'm an architect here in Charlottesown. 12 Lowe Street is an existing single family. 890 square foot. Single family on three floors. My clients are small family. Three of them probably before family. So they want to expand the house. I'm going to get done with that. Okay. There's somebody else there. All right. So basically what they want to do is make the house bigger. I think as anybody else would in a you know some 900 square foot house. So currently now they are in the middle place. And behind them in his industry park. What we'd like to do is put a three story edition on which is each floor will be 56 square feet. Essentially the first floor we just like to make the kitchen bigger. You know when the addition would be six foot two by nine foot utilizing. You know what's left of the land that they have to the back to the back property line. So it would be. Right up. You know we basically filling up the lot to that rear property line. The second floor would like to add a you know a normal sized bathrooms. That would should be seven 10 by five seven in that addition. And then on the third floor would like to you know would like to make up a master bathroom and make a master bedroom sweet sweet on that in that square footage. Um currently now. The there's some land there that we have a deck on that's not fast some of those properties have some. There are on the land that doesn't really belong to it's part of industry park. But the way it isn't the field is a retaining wall in a fence. So it's it's sort of no man's land. It's been like that you know as long as I've been around. And our zoning violations are there's an open space. They'll be open space violation because they only have the space now. We're filling up you know another 56 square feet of it. They are obviously a real set out violation because we're already into the 15 feet as the property sits. And there'll be an FAR violation because currently we're over you know I think we're 10 15 square feet over what's a lot of we're adding. 168. Currently the house. Gross is 10 10. We had a good community meeting and they've got multiple letters of support from the immediate neighborhoods which I believe are on record. With that I'll take questions if there are any that's there are any from the board. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Hearing none. Father testimony. Good morning Madam Chair and members. Seagull Johnson with the Office of Neighborhood Services. This applicant has completed the community process. Our office hosted and the butter is meeting on January 15th at which a butter is supportive of this application. Our office has also received a petition of support with 43 signatures that has been forwarded to the board. That background. Oh, and that's the first judgment to the board. Thank you. Thank you. Next. We have the person. Hey, Hadisha. Barini. Yes. Hari and Mithra Shavrini. Can you hear us? Yes, ma'am. Yes. Good morning everyone. My name is Mithra Shavrini and I'm with my husband, Hari. I've been the owner of 11 Ludlow, which assures the common role with 12 Ludlow connected. So directly immediately adjacent. I've owned that property since 1987 and my son lives there now. I certainly support Mr. Marie's intentions of improving his house. But I really would wish that we would comply with the zoning rules that applied to all of us. After reviewing carefully reviewing the summited plans and I'm sorry that I could not be there to the neighborhood meeting. I would like to again reiterate that the proposal eliminates the required rear yard set that. You all know the details about the second is that it does not meet the open space requirement. Third, that the plan shows an increase in the gross. Which is really an excessive space to the zoning analysis. I know I haven't limited time, but I really want to say that this is also going on additional land from the city. Which is a really bad habit for Charlestown to be getting into for all of us just because Mr. Shehan said, oh it's done. I don't think this is really a pattern we want to get into Charlestown to someone who's on that property for 40 years. I think that's a wrong direction for the city. And Mr. Marie himself, we have a similar thing. Our space is three floors. We have two floors. Jim, who was the previous owner, had built a third floor. And when we proposed the same exact idea to propose a third floor, Mr. Marie was vehemently against this project. And we abandoned it, respecting the neighborhoods for his decision that we were adjacent to his house and would be disrupting his life really, my son. And so, and he's also a neurodivergent. So this construction would be really hazardous for his health. So we really want to defer to the judgment. I hope this does not pass. Thank you for your consideration. Thank you. Thank you. A fragment. Hey, can you hear me? Yes. Yes, we can. Thank you to the board. I want to thank the ZBA, the community process. Very much appreciated to Tim and my family. Are you in a butter? No, excuse me. I'm going to excuse me. Sorry, I didn't know. I just make sure there's no other public comments. And if there are not, we can go back to you as the owner. Sorry, Madam Chair. Okay. Are there any other raised hands? We don't have any other raised hands. Okay, perfect. So then we can hear from the applicant on those butter concerns. Thank you, Mr. Marie. Okay. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you again to the board. Again, like Tim, he said, a little echoing off of Mr. Sheen. Just the size of the house of a growing family, where I'm an iron worker myself in the city. And my wife, Brana, is a nurse at New Health on the street on Bunk of Hill Street. We have a young daughter, three years old. Timmy, as he mentioned, is on practice has seen many, many houses in my neighborhood in Charleston. And ours is, you know, to his words, the smallest, if not one of the smallest. You know, naturally, we want to grow off him. We want to stay here in Boston. I really, really don't want to go anywhere else. Prior comments to our direct neighbor. There was never any true, true issue with their project. It's just I had structural issues that I thought maybe should have been addressed. It's not my take to tell somebody what to do with their house. It's more or less just a structural issue. But what that being said, I hope the board is willing to considerate the fact that so small of the house and so small of the land that we are on to potentially grow. And this house is very hard. Naturally, that's why we're asking for the addition. Thank you. I can Mr. Schiener, can someone remind us the board what's the total square foot addition? Because you have 966 square feet right now. Yeah, we're adding 168, 56 per floor, essentially adding a bathroom every floor. You know, it's a very small space. Thank you. Other questions from the board? Very none is there motion. Madam Chair. Yes. I just, I just realized that I need to recuse myself in this case. Okay, so we are a six-member board. Thank you. Any, is there a motion? I'd like to make a motion to approve, Madam Chair. There's second. Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencique. Yes. Mr. Lionel. Yes. Ms. Wewell. Yes. Mr. Brunel. Yes. Chair votes yes. The motion carries. Good luck. Thank you, everybody. Thank you. Next, we have case B.O.A. 1796393 with the address of 241 of your Hill Street. It's the applicant and the representative of the president. Would they please explain to the board? Yes. Good morning, Madam Chair. And the board, my name is Beth McDougall. I am the architect for 241 of your Hill. So what we're proposing here is to add a small roof deck on top of the first floor. If you could go to the next page, please. And the next page. Thank you. On the right, you can see on the left hand side is the small deck, which would be on top of the first floor, for the spiral stair that would go up to a deck on the top floor. The deck on the lower level is 10 by 15. We're using the existing house structure to support that. And then the deck on the top is 18 feet by 21 feet on the top of the house. We've held the deck back six feet from the roof edge. It's 5, 10 from the actual structure. And what these two decks will do is they will give us a combined space of 546 open space for the house. On the spiral stair as you come out of the second floor to go onto that deck, you'll go up the spiral stair up to the top deck. And I'll stop there. I'll start this right forward and answer any questions you may have. So you can find so this is a this is for the same unit. It's one. It's a simple family problem. Yes, sir. Okay. Questions from the board. Hearing none is the public testimony. Madam Chair and board members, see Johnson with the Office of Neighborhood Services. The location completed the community process and the butter's meeting was hosted by our office on October 3 of 2025, at which no concerns were raised with that background judgment from our office is deferred to the board. Thank you. And I'm checking in on additional comments. Is there motion? Motion to fulfill the work. Second. Mr. Stambridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Elevator. I'm Mr. Lion. Yes. Ms. Rueville. Yes. Ms. Turner. Yes. Mr. Bernal. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. The motion carries. Thank you, Madam Chair and board. Next we have case B.O.A. 1763761 with the address of 10 Harold Park. The applicant and or their representative president. Will they put splints of the board? Thank you, Mr. Secretary and good morning, Madam Chair and members of the board. For the record attorney, I'm with lecture tilton on behalf of the applicant. This morning is Jennifer Haft from QARC. We're here this morning seeking to change the occupancy of the existing structure from a three family dwelling to a five family dwelling and renovate the building. The project site is located at 10 Harold Park, which is near the dead end. The end of Harold Street and Harold Park in a bus of city of Boston open space parcel. The site is located with a three F 4000 zoning district and is one of the largest lots in the area containing over 8700 square feet. You can see the lot there on the presentation and the existing structure. This project that we're proposing presents a fairly unique situation where we're seeking to add two units to the existing building while proposing very limited changes to the overall structure. There are no exterior changes from the street. It includes a renovation interior and utilizing existing space both within the lower level as well as it built out existing fourth story. Overall, making the building more functional and creating the two additional residential units. We're also seeking to create some additional open space by utilizing space on the existing third story roof in the rear to create a deck for the proposed fifth unit. Overall, the lower level unit will have both egress windows, window wells to provide light and egress as well as a full rear walk out to a sunken patio. And again, the fifth unit will be in that existing fourth story, which you can see. So that'll be the smallest unit at two bedrooms because we'll keep the profile of the building as is and then just add the deck to the rear of that unit. Overall, in terms of violations, we are seeking use variants. This is a three-f district and we are seeking the two additional units. However, as mentioned, this is one of the largest lots in the area. We're also seeking relief for additional lot area per dwelling unit. The floor area ratio, you're allowed a point eight. We are proposing a 1.0. But again, all that space that we're seeking to legalize is already within the building. It's just making it more functional and utilized for residential units. And then finally, we did trigger a violation for height in terms of feet, but that's based on the roof deck alone. Again, the building is already 46 feet tall. We are not adding any structures above the current roof line. So the building profile will remain exactly as you see it today. As part of this process, we did meet with the abutters as well as appearing before the Garrison Trotter Housing Committee and their full membership meeting where they ultimately voted to support the project. We also submitted several letters of support through the board, which you should have on file. But with that, I'll very briefly turn it over to Jennifer Ha. Again, the project architecture. You can briefly walk through the floor plans and elevations and some of the landscaping as well. I'm Madam Chair and board members. My name is Jennifer Ha. I'm the principal architect at Q Architecture. My office is at 53H Harbour Street in Dorchester. So Tenhael Park is an existing three-family building that's built in 1905 as a four-story Mansard multi-family hall. The exterior has been recently refaced in the last five years and the owner wishes to convert the building from three to five units. The new units will be both within the existing building shawl. The changes in the building exterior are pretty minimal as what Matt had explained. And it includes a second patio for the basement, a roof deck over the rear abutment and the new exterior stair at the building rear. The proposed basement unit will use the existing entrance lobby of the building. That's on the first floor. And it will host three bedrooms and two bathrooms. It will feature a private sun in patio for the kitchen living space. The first floor, second floor and third floor are original to the house. Those are units that already have a private rear deck space. So there's not really many changes on that. On the fourth floor is the fourth floor unit is within the existing 992 square foot Mansard. So the space is already there. There has a beautiful high ceilings and views to the city. So there's already been a walk out towards the roof to that rear abutment. So there's a new roof deck. It will host two bedrooms and one bathroom as well as a new private roof deck. So that rear abutment room is not going to be an official deck instead of just a rubber membrane. The front facade of the building essentially stays the same as what Matt had explained. And the visible changes on the exterior can only be seen from the rear of the house, which is the rear roof deck, the rear stairs and the second patio. That's the end of my presentation. We've had to take any questions. The board might have. Thank you. Are there questions from the board hearing that Matt? I'm sure I can clarify. The new units are at the Mansard and at the basement. Right? There's already units on the first, second and third. That is correct. Yes. Okay. And the only addition part exterior wise is the stair in the back. Correct. Okay. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? May I have all the testimony? Madam Chair and members of the board for the record. My name is Charlie V. Embry. I'm the Roxbury Community Engagement Specialist for the Office of Neighborhood Services. The applicant has completed the community process, which consists of an abutters meeting facilitated on August 12th. That was lightly attended in a concern for parking was very multiple times. But on the code of sec is too small to provide no parking as well as a concern for traffic, the increase of enough affordability. Next the proposal was presented to greater charter neighborhood association who voted in support of the proposal. To date our office as we see 10 letters of support recognizing the need for more housing. Thank you for your time in the most office of neighborhood services. We like to defer to the board with that judgment. Thank you. Madam Chair, there are additional comments. Would that be a motion? I make a motion of approval. There is second. Mr. Stubbridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Ms. Wu-Wou. Yes. Ms. Turner. Yes. Mr. Bernal. Yes. Chair votes yes. The motion carries. Thank you very much. Good luck. Next we have case B.O.A. 1784542. The ad has nine claim on street. If the applicant handle the proposal. But the police plan before. The way my name is Stubbridge. I'm the owner of maybe my wife owned nine claim on street into a gesture and 10 or 15 years ago we have violations for. For rooms and there were actually studios. And there it was silence of 15 years and then we come back in 2025. So let's tell us to file with the city to get legalized. And we hope that as a minority you all will help us to get a relief so we can. And taxes and be good. We're sitting with the take care of property. And we just want to be. Get a relief and make purchase the gradient. And we're going to be. Just to confirm. It's it's been functioning as a five family but. But listed as a three and you're trying to correct it to be a five is that correct? Absolutely. Yes. We try to get you straight milk and I'm. Everyone everything to be straight and good. Yes. Okay. Are there questions from the board? Wow. May I have one of the testimony? Madam Chair and members of the board for the record. I would go to. Okay.ぉ. My family. And tell us how many of you have had a resolution and they're murder on Bluetooth or not. There's a screening. You have eat. Mr. Brunette. Motion. Thank you. Mr. Stambridge. Yeah. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Lino. Yes. Ms. We will. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Brunette. Yes. The motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Thank you very much. Next we have case B.O.A. 177-4682. What the address of 25 Tina have in them. If the applicant and what they represent, what they please, it's quite a case of the board. Yes. Good morning. Once again, Madam Chair. Members of the board for the record, Attorney Maddacle with Fletcher Tilton on behalf of the applicant. Welcome to the board. Welcome to the board. Welcome to the board. Welcome to the board. Welcome to the board. Welcome to the board. Welcome to the board. Welcome to the board. Welcome to the board. Welcome to the board. Welcome to the board. Welcome to the board. Welcome to the board. Welcome to the board. Welcome to the board. Welcome to the board. Welcome to the board. Welcome to the board. Welcome to the board. Welcome to the board. Welcome to the board. Welcome to the board. Welcome to the board. Welcome to the board. Welcome to the board. Welcome to the board. Welcome to the board. Welcome to the board. Welcome to the board. Welcome to the board. Welcome to the board. Welcome to the board. Welcome to the board. Welcome to the board. Welcome to the board. Welcome to the board. Welcome to the board. Welcome to the board. Welcome to the board. Welcome to the board. Welcome to the board. Welcome to the board. Welcome to the board. Welcome to the board. Welcome to the board. Welcome to the board. Welcome to the board. Welcome to the board. Welcome to the board. Welcome to the board. Welcome to the board. Welcome to the board. Welcome to the board. Welcome to the board. Welcome to the board. Welcome to the board. Welcome to the board. Welcome to the board. Welcome to the board. Welcome to the board. Welcome to the board. Thanks. I've worked on five member lighthakken and four electric speakers with three bedrooms and two bathrooms. Each unit will have one dedicated parking space. Two of the spaces are located We met several times with the abutters as well as the East River neighborhood association. We made several changes to the project mostly. We're rolling around the design to make sure it better fit in with the context of the neighborhood. We had more of a triple-decker look to start and we worked with the abutters here to come up with a more contextual design that fits within the neighborhood and doesn't play as much as a triple-decker. As a result of that, we did receive several letters of support from direct abutters, as well as a letter from City Councilor Peppin, which shall be on file with the board. Now, with that, I'll happily pause and take any questions the board may have. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? Yes, one of the enabled submitted documents. I'm sure you'll have to code at least 90s. It's correct, and if so, what is your plan for the open space? We're going to see a CSES. The property is vacant. It's been overgrown for some time. So most of the coverage there are invasive species. So we do have a landscaping plan, which you can see a little bit in the aerial view that the site plan. We have some plantings along the front of the street, along Tina Ab itself, kind of providing a buffer between that walkway. We also have some plantings at the rear and maintain a six-foot side setback to the left. The right side will be the driveway providing access to the parking. So we will be taking down some trees, but they're mostly invasive. And it's just been kind of an unkept lot for many years. Are there questions from the board? May I have public testimony? Madam Chair and members of the board for the record. My name is Charlie B. Embryree and the high park community engagement specialist at the Office of the Nibbley Services. The applicant asked included the community process for sensitive and important for others meeting facilitating on October 8th. That was very relevant. Now, but as voice their concerns for the size of the proposal, feeling it is too large with a small lot and for the two-family duplex would be more in line with the character of the Nibbley. The proposal was one to one parking ratio per unit was also a concern as the butters did not fill the provided enough parking considering the parking congestion issues. Other concerns were only shared with the number of variances being seeked, rolling in mitigation dark construction and repairing of the private road that the proposal sits on. Next to proponent presented the East River Naval Association, when they voted to oppose the proposal for the country family home was at a negative precedent for the Nibbley. To date, our office has received eight letters of support. One of them from Councilor Peppin's office, supporting the need for more housing, whilst staying in line with the character of the Nibbley. Thank you for your time in the Ms. Officer Nibbley Services. I'd like to defer to the board with your judgment. Thank you. Thank you, next. We have a Charlie. Good morning. My name is Charlie Brantley. My address is 18 Tina Avenue. I'm diagonal from 25 Tina Avenue. Nick and his team has met with residents to present the design plans and to listen to the residents. The team may change as to the design plans in response to the residents concern, one may be the structure of the rules. So it can be an alignment more with the other houses on Oakwood, and Tina Avenue. Even after that, Nick has made himself available after the butter's meeting to meet as a whole if we wanted to or one on one. I personally spoke with Nick several times. I appreciate his availability and his accessibility to hear my concerns to address them and to make the changes. I support the proposal because I support the opportunity for home ownership. Thank you so much for giving me time to speak. Thank you, ma'am. Next, we have Natalie Greene. Hello, can you hear me? Yes, ma'am. Okay, great. I'm at 22 Oakwood Street. So when we look out our front window where I sit to do some work, I actually look at this location. It is so for grown. I don't believe those are invasive species. I mean, I suppose most trees are from another country. So most of them are, but there are 11 violations. So it's the front, the side, the rear, the height, like everything is in violation. So actually, it was only invited to one other meeting and I did attend. So maybe the meetings were just not as we didn't know about them. But I am not in agreement with this, mostly the parking issue as well with three new units. Oakwood Street is also a private way. And so we have two spaces for us, but there's not, I mean, like all of the parking is on someone's land since it's a private way and we own the space right in front of our houses. So I think parking will be an issue. I know that when we had a conversation or a meeting, the first meeting that I went to, he was proposing possibly making that two units instead of three. So I see that that was not listened to. So yeah, I'm not sure how many people are in agreement with that. Thank you for your time. Thank you. Okay, next week I have a gentleman. Yes, yes, good morning. This is Justin Campbell. I'm an attorney and I would develop from a voodoo for you. You speak up, man. Yes, can you hear me now? Yes. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning, my name is Justin Campbell. I'm an attorney with the law firm of voodoo Friedman, LLP in Boston. And we represent Oakwood Street, LLC. And David Graffey is the manager of that LLC. And they own the property, their director butters at 27-2019 and 11 Oakwood and also 15-25 Oakwood in the small parcel, next to that. So they are the director butters on one side of this property. And they are in opposition. I've submitted an opposition letter already last week. And the gist of the opposition, I know I have just a short amount of time here, is that the, he feels the project and the LLC feels the project is just too large. It's too large for this tiny lot, it's too large for this private way to submit, so we've written, have three family, with three veterans each on this property is excessive. And that's just gist of the complaint. And we agree with the fact about the meetings. Mr. Reffey did indicate to me that he received, I believe there's just two pages of notices, but wasn't aware of all the meetings that occurred. So we would respectfully ask that this motion, I think. Thank you very much. Thank you. Madam Chair, there are no additional stands. Three said the moment. Okay, Mr. Echo, would you like to briefly address the concerns raised? Sure, yeah, happy to amount of Chair. So in terms of the parking, we understand parking is always a concern. However, with the trend to move away from too much impervious, we thought a one-to-one parking ratio is in line with the neighborhood and obviously provides adequate parking for the units. There are two, three veterans and one, two better units, just for the record. I think someone mentioned there being three, three bedrooms. But obviously with this being home ownership, the one-to-one parking ratio gives future homeowners the knowledge of what they will have with their property and bring that type of owner who may only have one car. It is a private road on Tina Ave. And that's certainly something that any future owners will know. There come with a private road comes some responsibility to work together with neighbors, obviously, to have certain rights over the street. I apologize, it doesn't look like someone from 19 team ad maybe was trying to speak and support or not sure if they are not a panelist. But in terms of the last commenter, I will just point out for the record that the properties that that was the first we heard of any opposition from them, they do have a two family directly to our left and then six units around the corner. But it's a little bit this in general is to talk about the size, I think of a property there when they have eight units kind of wrapping around the corner and we are just proposing a three family. So we do think it's in context of the neighborhood. We design the building to look very much like the buildings that wrap around the corner, which are reference the two families to the left and then the six units as you go around the corner to Oakwood. So we do think it's appropriate. It does provide home ownership units and much needed residential opportunities. And as mentioned, we have, I believe, six or seven letters of support from directed butters as well. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Here, none is there motion. I make a motion of approval with the provisive that grants have to be submitted to a plan in the parliament for the same review to increase any proof of an space if possible and also in product parking configuration. And also the applicant considering using permeable materials for the driveway in the parking spaces. Is there a second? Thank you. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Mr. Wewell. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Brinnell. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. The motion carries. Thank you very much. Next, we have case BOA 173227A with the address of 26 eastern street. If the applicant and or the representative present, will that please apply in the case of the boy? Good morning, Mr. Madam Chairwoman and Board Members, my name is Steven David. I represent a rack investments whose principles were catalog gene. 26 rest in street is located in Hyde Park. This particular street dead ends. There's 16 residential units on this street, 12 are multi families, four are singles, and there's a rather large commercial over in Aka Lot at the end of the street. The street in fact, dead ends. I have with me, Bonnie Tann, from JCFT, architect. She is going to take you through the projects, and then we'd be happy to answer any questions that you have. Bonnie? Good morning, Madam Chair and Members of the Board. My name is Bonnie Tann with JCFT architect. We are proposing to demolish the existing two family structure located at 26 eastern half Hyde Park and construction and construct a new four story eight unit residential building on the current lot. The ground floor will include an open parking garage with eight parking spaces along with one ADA accessible two bed two bath unit. The second floor will consist of three units. Each was two bed two bath. The third and fourth floors will feature a two regular unit and two by level units. The by level units will have three bed three bath and a private roof that unit size will range about 800 to 1200 square feet each. The exterior design will feature a modern architectural style, consistent with many recently approved multi-family developments in the city. The project about the commuter rail will require approval from Keolas. The surrounding area includes a mix of smaller multi-family homes and industrial buildings. We also receive support from District 5 Tesla. So the exterior will look into half a hearty siding and PVC and some modern designs, black windows, will have a roof deck, private roof deck on the top floor as a penthouse units. This is my end of my presentation. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? Yeah, I have one small question. Will you need two properties or only ships? That decision has been made. It's been designed as a rental building. And easily convertible over your home ownership. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Man's public testimony? Madam Chair and members of the board for the record, my name is Jeremy Bembery and the High Park Community Engageant Specialist for the Office of Neighborhood Services. The African ask completely the community process, which is an assistive in a brothers meeting facilitated on July 31, lightly attended with all guests to being civics' loud leadership. Where employees were addressing concerns, where raised, were gone in open space for children to play, and the verbiage of the refusal that are regarded for good and use. Next proposal was presented to High Park Neighborhood Association, where they voted an opposition to the proposal, filling the neighborhood as dealing with overdevelopment and the proposed has too many violations. To date, I will office as we see one letter of support from Councillor Henry Gabe Pepin's office. I think you've heard your time in the most opposite name for the services, would like to defer to the board for the judgment. Thank you. Madam Chair, there are no additional comments. And the applicant addressed the concerns that were mentioned? We took the concerns very seriously. The opposition at the meeting was more about the new development rather than the project quite frankly, so the open space is something that we could deal with possibly with the Boston Planning and Development at that time. This particular area would actually benefit from this project in terms of some of the homes on the area are much older. This could stimulate some redevelopment remodeling in that area, the street dead end, so it's really safe at that area. The only one traveling on that street would be people who live there doesn't access anywhere. So we attempted to address those issues. That particular issue was a challenge. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? May I have a motion? Motion to approve. There's second. That can. Assistant director. Yeah. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Is we well? Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Burnell. Yes. Yes. Share votes. Yes. The motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Thank you. The next case has been deferred. So we return to the first case of the night hearing to see if anyone's present. I'm asking. So this will be four case B.O.A. 178-5172 with the address of 254 Bremitt Street. Would you go ahead? Please. Yes. And thank you and apologies for my earlier. Why fight connection issues? Good morning. I'm Chair. Members of the board. My name is Jeff Thomas. I'm the homeowner and proponent of the project at 254 Bremitt Street in East Boston. We are seeking a conditional use permit to construct a single story. Vertical addition and roof deck on an existing triple-decker to expand the living space for our third floor unit. Allowing us to accommodate a growing family and call these Boston homes for the foreseeable future. We designed this addition to be as compliant with Plenty's Boston zoning as possible and to fit in with the context of our neighbors on Bremitt Street. We can go to the second slide. They're really for requesting a specific to article 53 regarding roof structure setbacks. While we meet almost all the criteria we're seeking relief from the five-foot setback requirement on the roof edges due to the narrow footprint of the building. A mandatory five-foot setback on all sides kind of shrinks the deck to an unusable area and would require us to move the the eager staircase internally which would obviously be difficult and render the deck pretty small and make elements of the project inside, infeasible. The same setback requirements would also make the proposed solar array kind of difficult pull off. You can scroll down to the third slide. Despite the lack of setbacks on the roof we intentionally positioned the deck at the rear of the property so it's not visible from the street level and we're going to design the structure to support large planters around that we can frame the deck to minimize the potential nuisance to our neighbors. So with that I'm happy to answer any questions about the project. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Hearing none may I have public testimony? It's a film representing the mayor's office. We're getting 254 Brennan Street office to first this board's judgment. The community process was conducted including the La Butters meeting held on Monday November 24th, 2025 that was intended by two community members who did not have any questions or comments regarding the proposal. It was also reviewed by the Maverick Central Neighborhood Association and they decided to support the project. At this time the mayor's office of the neighborhood service is different to the board's judgment on the spanner. Thank you everyone for your coming consideration. Thank you. Next we have Stephen Murray. Good morning Madam Chair, members of the board. At this time our office would like to go and support this project. Thank you so much. Thank you. Madam Chair, there are no additional comments. Would that maverick motion? Madam Chair, would you like to make a motion to approve? No second. Second. Second. Mr. Stabbridge. Yes. Mr. Ronsia. Yes. Mr. O'Lingham. Yes. Ms. Weewell. Yes. Ms. Turner. Yes. Mr. Burnell. Yes. Chair votes yes. The motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. And with that we'll take a break till 11 a.m. ... President Manichur. Thank you, Mr. Valencia. Hmm. Mr. Langham. President. Ms. Weewell. President. Ms. Turner. President. Mr. Brinnell. President. Mr. Valencia. She looks like he has a lab ring-flying jet. Okay. Mr. Valencia. President. All right. Thank you. Okay. Mr. Amichur. All good. It's nice to be instantors. So with that, we'll go through. Go to the hearing. We'll go through 11 a.m. At this time, we'll ask if there are any requests for withdrawals or deferrals from the 11 a.m. here. Uh, Jared. Yes. Seeking at a fall? Yes. Good morning. I'm Sharon members of the board. Jared, I am not a McLennan and fish for the first item. 7127 North Washington. Oh, okay. Please let Mr. Steinbridge meet in to the left one. Which place? Very good. So this request is for case BOA 117, a 2541 with the address of 119 to 127 North Washington. Let's do несpanter. Yes. I represent the Apå. Howent Coppano, North End, but the property is actually owned by a family business. Not known as Jake Realty, Inc., it may have asked for a deferral of two months to discuss internally with their family. Okay. Howent? We could do May 19th, June 2nd, June 16th. May 19th, please. May I have a motion? Motion to refer to May 19th. May I have a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yeah. Mr. Lawrence, T.I. Yes. Mr. Lyon. Yes. Ms. V. Will. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Bernal. Yes. Chair votes yes. The motion carries. See you then. Thank you. So again, we'll ask that there are any requests for further withdrawals or withdrawals from the 11 o'clock hearing. And with that, we'll move on to the case BOA 179, 6362 with the address of 566 Commonwealth Avenue. If the applicant and the one that is on the present, they're moving to the case in the board. Yes. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Good morning. Once again, Madam Chair, members of the board for the record of turning medical with Fletcher Tilton on behalf of the applicant. With me this morning is Eric Zacherson from Context, the project architect. The proposal before you is we're seeking to convert a portion of the second floor at 566 Commonwealth into six new residential units. Currently the building at 566 Commab known as Kenmore Tower contains 111 residential units as well as office space. This project would convert some of that existing office space on the second floor into new residential units for a total of 117 residential units. The site is located in Kenmore Square and is within the Boston Proper Zoning District and a B4 sub district. A lot itself is approximately 24,000 square feet and surrounded by many different uses including residential retail offices and institutional. The property is located between the Blanford Street and Kenmore MBTA stations providing access to the green line as well as bus route number 57, which runs very long Commonwealth Ave outside of the building. The project itself involves interior renovations to create the six new residential units, which would be proposed to be one better units. There are no exterior changes proposed or changes to the building footprint. This will all be within the second level of the existing building. The proposed multi-family use isn't allowed use. However, we are seeking relief from the board this morning for usable open space. As this is obviously an existing building on an existing site. We don't have the ability to add any additional open space for the new proposed units. As far in the process, we met with the butters as well as the Kenmore Square Business Association and obviously stakeholders within the building. And no concerns were expressed at those times. With that, I'll pause and happily take any questions the board may have. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? May I have public testimony? Madam Chair and members, John C. with the Office of Neighborhood Services, the completed the community process are off-assisted in a butters meeting on January 7th at which no concerns were raised. The Kenmore Square Association has no concerns regarding this application. That background our office deferred judgment to the board. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning, Madam Chair and members of the board. My name is Anthony. I'm calling on behalf of Councillor Sharon Durgan. We'd like to go and record and support. Thank you. Next, we have a NAS RCC, MoTEDEIRO. Good morning, Madam Chair and members of the board. Members of the board, this is a minor progress with the Carpenters Union. We just like to go and record on support of the project. Thank you. Sir, Pazador. Thank you. Madam Chair, there are no additional comments. Okay. Would that be a motion? I'd like to give a motion to approve. Second. Mr. Stonebridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Rangham. Yes. This will be well. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Bernal. Yes. Chair votes yes. The motion carries. The book. Thank you very much. Next, we have case B.O.A. 179 8179 with the address of 55 to 567 East Broadway. If the applicant's end or the representable person will they please explain to the board. Yes. Good morning, Madam Chairman. Members of the board. My name is Francis Adams. I'm an attorney in South Gloss, the business address of 350 West Broadway. I represent the owner, Stephen Collins, who was also on the call. As the application today is to add a roof deck to an existing townhouse condominium. The first slide shows the site plan. We are seeking relief for Article 6829 with the restriction and also Article 68 building hide excess of this project. New construction, six townhouse condominiums located on East Broadway in South Boston. Next slide please. You can see the front elevation of the property. Broadway slopes down from G to Broadway. From G Street to H Street. Next slide please. The deck. The proposed addition of the deck as you can see from the proposal is a roof deck to an existing structure access directly from the unit. We are in hatch from within the unit. There are no exterior staircases of balconies. It's an exclusive use deck solely for the use of the unit honor. This is the side of Broadway. There's a parapet. The whole deck is hidden behind the parapet. It's below the level of the parapet. If the board can't see but the property is surrounded in the rear entirely by the horizon building. There's no residential butters in the rear. To the right of the building on the Broadway facing side there are five commercial storefronts. Then there's the south-west of courthouse and then there's the power clean center. There are virtually no residential butters in the rear or to the right of the property. As I said, the deck will be accessed directly from the unit. It's not a common deck. The deck is set back. As you can see, it's approximately six feet from these Broadway. There's no, you cannot be seen from the Broadway side. As I said in the rear and to the right, it's all commercial buildings. It's not going to be visible from any of those buildings. Total size of the deck is approximately 12 by 7 or 300 square feet. It's access directly from the deck. It's from the roof hatch and it's receiving a conditional use as well as a variance for the two violations that are cited. With that, we can take any questions from the board. Questions from the board? During night and public testimony? Madam Chair and members, Ziggy Johnson at the Office of Neighborhood Services. This petitioner completed the community process. Our office hosted on a butters meeting on December 11, 2025. A butters were opposed to the application. A butters day that part of the community process for the construction of this building was a compromise for no roof decks on the building. Our offices received three letters of opposition that has been forwarded to the board. Our offices are aware of a petition from 11 butters that has been forwarded to the board. Gave heaven neighborhood association as opposed to this application. With that background, Owen S. DeFurz, judgment to the board. Thank you. Next, we have actually from Councillor Flemme. Good morning, my name is Ashley from Councillor Flemme's office. Councillor Flemme wrote to the board today in complete opposition to the proposal at 5555. There was significant opposition during the community process with nearby neighbors in the gate of heaven neighborhood association meeting. Moreover, the reason why the community, the gate of heaven neighborhood association in my office supported the original project years ago. And now, close this one is specifically due to a good faith compromise to remove the roof decks. Residents believed individual owners adding roof decks after the fact does not deal with our housing crisis and there is no hardship to address. Councillor Flemme has a long standing policy against roof decks in the residential areas of South Boston, two years of negative feedback from our seniors, presence with disabilities and young families on the quality of life issues, in the form of noise at all hours, trash removal and subsequent pest control concerns. South Boston has become a destination for young people to visit on the weekend. These neighborhood issues have increased dramatically. Moreover, as a roof deck does not address our housing crisis, Councillor Flemme believes it should not be granted zoning relief to benefit individual property owners over many concerned neighbors. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. My name is Charlie. I have no additional comments. So can we have to address the comment about the raised, you know, creating this thing through agreement? Yeah, I'm sure Madam Chair. The first off, Mr. Collins did not have any agreement with the abode. He's a residential unit owner. He recently purchased the concred medium. My understanding is when the project was a project with board previously, there was no restrictions on roof deck. For them, the original application was for rental units, not home ownership units. The developer had turned the property into all residential units as a compromise. For them, Mr. Collins is an owner occupant. He's a sole person living in the property. There is no rent or in the building. There is no party deck. It's an exclusive use comment deck for one particular person. As far as the butter's off position, I would again like to point out in the board, there is no residential livers in the rear of the property. The Verizon building takes up half a city block, which is directly behind this property. If you're looking at the front of the building, there are five commercial buildings to the right, as well as the self-lost and courthouse, and then the power cleats center for the city of Boston. There is no residential abode. There is in any direction in the rear, it's on the right. I respect council of the position. I know he opposes all roof decks. We don't disagree with that. This particular project is recommended by approval by the planning department. We've completed the community process. But again, as far as noise, I don't disagree with the councilor. If there is noise, it's sometimes with rents and units. This is an owner occupied property. Mr. Collins had no agreement. It's a great use of open space. The property has no additional open space. Those are two of the reasons the planning department did make recommended approval for this. Hopefully, that addressed the question. Madam Chair. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Is there a motion? Madam Chair, I'm in the name of the committee meeting with the Boston planning department, and I make a motion of approval. Is there a second? Okay. Mr. Stambridge. Uh, yeah. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Lino. Yes. Yes. Mr. Vellanzia. Yes. Mr. Lino. Yes. Yes. Yes. Miss Wihwa. Yes. Mr. Turner. Um, no. Mr. Vell. Yes. Chair votes yes. The motion carries. Thank you. Thank you, board. Appreciate it. Next we have case billway. 181-8358 with the address of 165 to the street. It's the applicant and or their representative. Would they please point to the board? The morning that air, my name is Charles Chetkin, I'm attorney at 15 Broad Street Boston. I'm appearing on behalf of the applicant 162 West 7th Street LLC, the Durham Aguilard Field of the Kean, as co-managers, Mr. Kean is also a bill on this hearing to answer any questions. The proposal is seeking a conditional use permit to make the long-standing use of this 819 square foot parcel for parking zoning compliant. This 15 feet wide, by 52 feet wide, a long rather parcel is part of a larger parcel which was conveyed to the Director of Buyers in 1995 by the City of Boston as part of the Abbotta Watts program, with the restriction running with the land that no structure could be erected on the property and that the premises would remain open for uses, including but not limited to Austrian parking. The proponent has completed the neighborhood process and the other classes. There is no opposition to this as of which we are aware. We've also been in close communication with the Office of District Council, Ed Flynn, and we got in this project and finally we understand that the planning department has recommended approval and has concluded that the requested relief is appropriate. We are not going to be able to answer any questions that the board may have. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Madam Chair and members, Cigia Johnson with the Office of Neighborhood Services. This applicant completed the community process, the office hosted in the butters meeting on January 14th, which no butters shows to speak. The former association must be aware of this application and has taken no position or is unaware of any other concerns that background judgment is deferred to the board. Thank you. Next we have Ashley from the Councilor Fleeing Office. Thank you, Councilor Fleeing, to go on record and support the Sunday Good Community process. Your specular request that the proponent continue to work closely with neighbors on quality of life issues that may arise in construction days. Thank you. Thanks, next we have a Philly Kent. Mr. Kent is a co-owner, Madam Chair, so be it support. Does that be to be a course? Thank you. Any other response? Madam Chair, down the relational history. Okay, will that be a motion? Second, thank you. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Ms. Mimbo. Yes. Ms. Turner. Yes. Ms. Bernal. Yes. Mr. Chair, yes. The motion carries. Thank you, Madam Chair, and have a support. Next, we have a case B.O.A. 179-8127, with the address of 16 Chilcot Place. It's the applicant and the other representative of the front. Will they please point the case to the board? How you doing? My name is Cole Chuprar. I'm a project manager for Co-construction. I'm here represented 16 Chilcot and Hazus Martinez. I can share my screen if you're just going to sit down. So you need to present with what the ambassador is following here? Oh, okay. So this is existing proposed plot plan. We and his use Martinez are looking to add a 20 by 22 third floor addition with a new full bathroom, NHBAC, and plumbing, and the new floor. We have received approval in the past from the angle, the counter-roise and the Angleston Square Neighborhood Association. We originally were denied, or there was a denial for non-conforming, and certain variances. But as you can see from the proposed plot plans, we're making more space for more housing options. Hazus has been a great landlord and made multiple affordable housing. Locations available for residents of the city of Boston. So this is basically extending and adding an addition on top of the existing building itself and not expanding it or going out on the roadway to block any neighbors or upper out any more than it currently is. It's just expanding with current footprint. And we have received support from the neighbors and the neighborhood association as well. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? Hearing none, may I have a public testimony? Madam Chair and members of the board for the record. My name is Jeremy Fembery. I am the Jamaica Plain Community Engagement Specialist for the Office of Neighborhood Services. The applicant has completed the community process, which consisted of an abundant meeting, facilitated on January 8th, that was lightly attended. Abundance of voice inquiries regarding the construction time frame and aesthetics of proposals specifically the painting and the shingles. Two of what is voice support for the proposal. Next, the proponent presented the Agro-Synscore Neighborhood Association in Jamaica Plain Neighborhood Council. Agro-Synscore Neighborhood Association supports the proposal. Jamaica Plain Neighborhood Council is zoning for the to approve the proposal. Today, our office has received two letters of support, one from Agro-Synscore Neighborhood Association and one from Jamaica Plain Neighborhood Council recommended the proposals approval. Thank you for your time and the rest of the Office of Neighborhood Services. We would like to defer to the board for the judgment. Madam Chair, there are no additional comments. Any other questions from the board? May I have a motion? I look forward a motion of approval. There are a second. Second. Mr. Steinbrich. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Ms. Wiewal. Yes. Ms. Turner. Yes. Mr. Bernal. Yes. Chair votes yes. The motion carries. Thank you, Madam Chair and members. Thank you very much. Good luck. Next, we have case B.O.A. 1804462 with the address of 203 Claire Avenue. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, good morning. Thank you for your time. This is Kyle Smith of Statera Law. This is at just a 359 Newbury Street in Boston's back bay here at the present behalf of the owner. I believe the owner is on the line as well and does have some language-related complications being primarily Spanish speaking if there's any translator available. That would in the event that he has questions that the board would like for him to answer if that could be provided to him. But otherwise, happy to proceed and speak on behalf of the owner. Please do so. Did you request interpretation at advance? It was only known to me last minute that he would be able to attend so I had not previously requested it. Okay. So just please keep that in mind in the future. Understood. Thanks, Chris. Madam Chair, members of the board, if you proceed to the site plan, if you enlarge that small right portion of the corner, you'll see that this is adjacent parcel to the former church site, the All Grace Harvest Church. We have an approximate 12,500 square foot lot that is largely clear cut in Macatum. This is a prior parking lot servicing the prior church site. On the leftmost portion of this kind of multi-shaped parcel we have on the right most and leftmost site on Collins Street and also on Claire Avenue. We have two existing curb cuts and the plan is to utilize those curb cuts for access for parking so we don't need to obtain any new curb cuts to service the site. The proposal is to basically erect housing in a single family sub-district. Jason Tucson larger zoned portions of this immediate community for proposed four story. First four is partially subsurface. We have about four to five feet of exposure between grade height and the ceiling of the proposed basement level unit with appropriate window wells in the like for that unit and then three units above. So a total of four units in this stacked quadruple decker. Again, we have an approximate 12,500 square foot lot size. We're seeking relief for multi several dimensional regulations for FAR for exceeding the number of stories or two and a half is allowed proposing three with partially subsurface basement unit. 35 feet of maximum height is permitted in the sub district. The proposal is for a building height of just sub 37 feet. We have 40 feet of required setback from the rear proposal at the pinch point is 34.78 feet so just slightly under the requirement. We have parking requirements for this area to per unit. We're proposing four and aggregate one port per unit. We also need relief for the number of units in a single family sub district. And then there's also just general concerns about basement dwelling units. But again, we do have approximately four to five feet of exposure from grade to ceiling height of the proposed lower level living. I guess with that, I can turn it over to the board for follow up questions or concerns. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? Yes, how many of the cut of cuts you have? For this side. They're resisting to the intent is to maintain and utilize those two. Okay. I saw that the plan department is recommending to close one of those. Have you had conversations with the department or that? Ideally, I would say existing infrastructure curb cuts is a value. So I think for the ability to enter and exit right to maintain traffic flow. It would be preferable to maintain them and not too close up one of the curb cuts. But that's conversation. I guess we could have with the planning process. But ideally, we'd like to maintain that was that which is existing. Thank you. Thank you. Other questions from the board? Madam Chair and members of the board for the record. My name is Jeremy Beverly. I'm the high park community engagement specialist for the office on their board services. The applicant asked completely community process, which consisted of when the brothers and we think facilitated on October 23rd, they attended with two immediate of others and one of what was best to concern for the foundation, stating there's a ledge. They are aware of that runs below and across the street. Our brothers were concerned for the impact the project will have on the foundation and it might have the date will be done safely, including the removal of the ledge. Next, the proposal is presented to high park neighborhood association where they voted and supported the proposal. To date our office has received one letter of support again from the high park neighborhood association. Thank you for your time and the Ms. Office of Neighborhood Services would like to defer to the board for their judgment. Thank you. Madam Chair, there are no additional comments. Any feedback from the applicant comments? So two things I did fail to mention that propose blend of beds and baths in the units. They're all kind of stacked with the same footprint, but the proposal is for three bed, two and a half baths per unit, with an approximate building foot print of 1800 square feet. So nice, sized, generally family oriented type units. As far as the concern, I mean there is no ledge on site. I've worked with other communities specifically, you know, Rockview Street and Jamaica Plain, where that was also a concern. There's an ability to maintain and take existing kind of conditions of other neighboring structures. So, you know, in building in the city building close to other structures, there is an ability for engineers to take existing conditions and monitor that. So we're confident in the ability to, you know, build the site while also maintaining and respecting, butting structure. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Madam motion. Madam Cheryl, put forward a motion of approval with a proviso. That plans are submitted to the planning department for designer view to ensure the adequate design of the basement dwelling unit. I also agree with Mr. Valencia's comment about the two carb cuts that was also raised in the planning memo. I don't think four units were to curb cuts, so I would also add designer view to review closing the carb cut and eliminating the driveway off-collence shape. There's second? Second. This is the average. Yeah. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Mr. Langham? Yes. As we will. Yes. Mr. Turner? Yes. Mr. Bernal? Yes. Chair votes yes. The motion carries. Thank you. Next we have case B.O.A. 179-6654 with the address of 41-square-per-world. If the applicant enters the representative of the panel, will they agree? In case the board? Yes. Mr. Valencia, is the applicant present? Right here, yes. Can you identify yourself and please proceed. Tim Bailey from Bailey DeVal Studio Build on the general contractor on this project. It's basically a basement renovation. We actually thought it had heating in the basement until everything was moved out of it. So basically it's just adding each VEC system to the basement, enhancing the existing space creating a bathroom in a bar underneath the basement stairs. It's not going outside the existing basement footprint at all and no changes to the exterior of the home. Thank you. Questions from the board? Madam Chair and members of the board for the record by name is Jeremy Bebary. I am the Jamaica Plain Community Engagement Specialist for the Office of Neighborhood Services. The applicant has completed the community process, which consists of an aborder's meeting facilitated on December 15th with one aborder and attendance that voice support as they saw nothing that raised concerns. Next to proposals presented to Jamaica, it was a association on January 4th and Jamaica Plain Neighborhood Council zoning on January 21st, where both associations approved the proposal. Today our office has received one letter of support from Jamaica Plain Neighborhood Council recommending approval. Thank you for your time in the mayor's office of Neighborhood Services. It's diverse for the board for the judge. Madam Chair, I don't know how much you will comment. Would that may I have a motion? Motion to approve. 30 second. Okay. Mr. Stembridge. Okay. Mr. Ronesia. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Ms. Mewall. Yes. Ms. Turner. Yes. Mr. Bernal. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. The motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, since we passed the 1.30 hour, we'll ask at this point if there are any requests for withdrawals or deferrals from 11.30. No. We'll have a couple of minutes and then we'll go to the next one. 30th channel. We're done. We'll return to the 11th public parks. We'll go to case BOA. 190365 with the address of 857 beacon street. If the applicant and the representative front would they put a point to the board. Yes. Thank you. Cameron Merrill. I apologize when I was promoted as a panelist. My video shut off and I'm having trouble turning it back on. I didn't want to restart my computer right on the cusp of presenting. So I apologize for the fact that the video is not on. Aaron Steve's is present as well. But my name is Cameron Merrill and Council for the Association, the Inverness Condominium Association. I was a grant for the commission, the state of emergency. We've been working with the council for about a hundred state street Boston, Massachusetts. This project comes before you after about two years of attempting an elevator modernization after the elevator in this five story building failed about two years ago. This project has been presented to the AAB, the elevator commission before the state. the head house being large and a stair be built to the head house for the elevator equipment. This is showing on page A6 is the best page to see this. So we did previously have a building permit but it was based on that request as you can see there that the plans had to be amended to account for additional head height. So ultimately the structure is going to be about three feet six inches taller than it had been. We're expecting little to no visibility from the street and the unit owners are in desperate need of this. As you can see it's a stair walk up. You have a letter I believe from a unit owner upstairs. We have attempted to work this every single possible way without a full-fledged modernization. Engineers, specialists, architects, consultants but unfortunately a $1.2 million modernization is what we resulted with. This has been approved by the board. Fundings in place. This was just a last minute hiccup that we did not anticipate given the amendment that the state board requested for the elevator head house. And again I apologize for the video. Typically I happen on as you know. I'm not sure what happened there. No problem. Any questions on the board? Hearing none may have public testimony. Madam Chair and members see Johnson with the Office of Neighborhood Services. This petitioner completed the community process. Our office hosted in a butter's meeting on January 13th at which no concern for raised office received one letter of support from in a butter and another letter of support from the auto-bond circle neighborhood association. With that background our office deferred judgment to the board. Thank you. Madam Chair Tony buys again from Councillor Sharon Jerkins office. She just like to go on record and support. Thank you. And we have somebody from the public Brian make right. If you can use yourself. Good death. Yes. Are you here speaking supporter opposition of the spot? 57.3? No I'm in support of 378.380 with that. Okay. We're not there yet. Next class next. Thank you. Okay. I think we have minor for this. Thank you Mr. Ambassador. Madam Chair and members of the board minor for this represent and the carpenter's union. We like to go on record and support of this project proposal. Thank you. Madam Chair without the additional comments. That may have motion. Motion to approve. Now the second. Thank you. Mr. Stembridge. Are you on mute Mr. Stembridge? Sorry about that, Madam Chair. Yes. Thank you. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Wayne. Yes. Mr. Wu-Waow. Yes. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Bernal. Yes. Chair votes yes. Motion carries. The moment. Madam Chair. Members of the board. And next we have case be away. 179.9257 with the address of 378.380 Washington Street. Is the applicant in the represent. I believe our president will get to the board. Chair, good morning Madam Chair and to the board. My name is Derek Rubinoff from Derek Rubinoff Architecture 84 Spring Street in West Rocksbury. I'll be presenting on the architect for the project and with the online here are the owners Jonas Safar and Brian Johnson. This is a simple project. It's a 3037 square foot tenancy in a 15800 and five square foot building in Brighton Center and we're looking to change the use of the of a tenancy space in the back of the building from what was previously a temp agency office to a puzzle room and we need zoning relief for a couple of things. The first is that there isn't really a puzzle room category in the in the Brighton zoning article in terms of uses. The use closely most closely relates to amusement game machines and commercial establishment which is a conditional use and then the second thing that we need relief for is parking 12 spaces are required. Like I said it's a pretty simple fit out. We'll be upgrading the tenancy to be a 521 C Mark compliant. We've presented both the butter's meeting on December 16th and met with the BA IA on January 18th and we have at least 10 letters of support. Questions from the board? Hearing none, ma'am public testimony? Madam Chair and members, see Johnson with the Office of Neighborhood Services. This application completed the community process. Our office hosted an butter's meeting on December 16th, 2025 at which no concerns were raised. The applicant's met with the Brighton Austin Improvement Association which is in support of this application. That background our office differs judgment to the board. Thank you. Madam Chair, there are no additional hands raised at the moment. Okay, may I have a motion? Madam Chair, I make a motion of approval. There are second. Back at it. Mr. Stumbridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Mavangam. Yes. Yes. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Brunel. Yes. Chair, the votes yes. The motion carries. Thank you very much. At this point at this time we'll go to the rediscussion cases scheduled for 11 30 AM. We'll ask again if there are any requests for which also the polls. And hearing none, we will go to case BOA 178 7097 with the address of 128 Bennington Street. If the applicant and or the representative are in a present, will they please point to the board? Yes. Thank you, Mr. Stumbridge. And good morning again, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Richard Lens, 245. Summarsh Street on behalf of the petitioner. If we can jump down to slide four just to get a little bit of quick and new context here. Madam Chair, those board, this is an existing two-story building on Bennington Street, so main thoroughfare in its Boston. Newly amended zoning has changed the zoning district to EER4, which allows buildings up to four stories, 50 feet in height, along with multi-family use to be a lot as a matter of right. Our proposal with demolished existing structure goes on the site and rebuild to four stories with four residential units. There's an existing curb cut to the light of our property currently. Our proposal would maintain that. I'll talk a little bit about that when we get into the discussion about the relief that's necessary and that that setback on the right side of the choose for drivers also easement for the property located to our right. So it is it is necessary that we maintain that setback. If we can go to the next slide please. It shows our street view. Very common type of design building itself was probably lower level commercial use, which looks like it may have a window closed years ago. The upper level was residential. It's currently used as a two-family building and that that as I said would be completely demolished and rebuilt to four residential units. As you can see the existing structure currently sits on the front property line and that is a very typical condition for buildings along the side of Bennington Street, which we'll discuss when we get to the front yard setback on our next slide please. So different view in here you can see the context of Bennington Street as we go down. Next slide please. And then looking back up Bennington Street towards the main intersection of Brooks you can see the building at the corner, which is reflective of the new zoning and the new height that is permitted in the district. So four stories up to 50 feet height is permissible. If we can jump down to slide yeah let's kind of slide down. That's good. So by way of site plan as you can see our existing building the existing building that sits at the zero line on the left-hand side we proposed to build our building to that same setback on the left. As you can see we do maintain to the right a driveway which will allow access for up to three vehicles. The relief that will be necessary for this particular proposal as cited by ISD throughout this project has been really outside the art and fine yard. With respect to the fine yard as I mentioned we aren't able to meet the model setback so the alignment of the block on that side of Bennington Street is pretty much at a zero. We would continue to align with building with the zero setback. With respect to the left setback we would set that up the property line as well as the building its current main set. We would just be expanding it back towards the rear and on the right side we remain as the driveway that easement in conjunction with our neighbor to our right. With respect to the rear so we do set our building back 36 feet which is sufficient under EBR for zoning for this depth of this lot. How are the stairs do go into the mirror lot slightly and then we show the parking spaces to the mirrors. Well next slide please. Next slide. So this is just showing the basement level. One of the things that we were informed about was that because we are relatively close on elevation-wise based upon C-FRAID the family room that was proposed in the basement would be eliminated to in order to comply with the C-FRAID requirements. So that basement area that should show the family room would be eliminated entirely. We would just utilize this for storage and then obviously C-FRAID compliant how utilities that meet your requirements of Article 25A. Next slide please. This is the main level unit one. It scrolls through these relatively quickly. Level two, level three, pretty similar level four. We do show roof deck roof deck with the exclusive to unit four of the upper most level. We are accessing that light headhouse switch is permissible under the requirements for headhouses and for roof decks in the district. With that I will pause in the answer on any questions or board. Thank you. Questions from the board? Yeah I have one quick question. I might have missed it. What is the height of this building? If we can zoom in I believe we're below the 50 foot limit. If I build a zoom in here I get a better look at that. Scroll down, scroll down, scroll down, see the lowest levels. Yeah so it shows first grade at 918. I think just under 40 feet total. Okay thank you. Good. Other questions from the board? May I have public testimony? I'll invite them to remember the support. My name is Abit Jones representing the Mayor's Office and Neighborhood Services. Regarding 120 Abending Tinsvade, our office differs to the board's stretchroom. A community process was conducted including on a butters meeting on 1026-25 that was attended by one community member there, Director Butter, where some productive conversation was had regarding the easement shared by both properties and no other concerns were expressed. The proposal was also reviewed by the Eagle Hill Civic Association at the their meeting on 1119-25. The Association expressed support and voted 8 yes and 5 no about the proposal. At this time the Mayor's Office and Neighborhood Services differs to the board's stretchroom on this matter. Thank you everyone for your time and consideration. Thank you. Next we have a Christian Simmonerly. Good morning Madam Chairman. Members of the board, Christian Simmonerly, Boston, Brown, and LaRetrust. And we have both Chicada Lettuce from the applicant. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, there are no these are no comments. Okay. Any other questions from the board? Yes Madam Chair. I'd actually like to hear from Mr. Hampton about the recommendation. No you don't. You really don't. I really don't. No. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Jeff Anton, City of Boston Planning Department. Our recommendation was an aisle was based on our interpretation of the plans but after you know attorney Linz's presentation and explaining the stairs of the only thing going into the rear setback, the elimination of the basement. I cannot change our recommendation but I believe that attorney Linz explained the violations clearly as a sinkley. So we do stand by our recommendation but in light of the presentation it I can't say. You can stop there. I'm going to stop there. Thank you. Okay. All right. And I see Coster Coleta's office raised their hand. So if stuff I want to speak. Yes. Thank you Madam Chair, members of the board at this time the office wanted to go and support of this project. Thank you so much. Thank you. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? May I have a motion? I make a motion of approval. Is there a second? That was a second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Lino. Yes. This we well. Yes. Mr. Erner. Yes. Mr. Bernal. Yes. Chair votes yes. Motion carries. Any further? No. Next we have case B.O.A. 178. 3703. With the address of 198 Mariner Street. It's the applicant and what they represent. What they put in case the board. Thank you Mr. Stembridge. Thank you Madam Chair. Members of the board at turning Jeff Drago with Drago and discounted with the business address of 11 Beacon Street. On behalf of the applicant and with me I have Eric Zacherson from Context to design the plans for the proposal that we're looking at which is a project at 198 Mariner Street in East Boston. The proposal this building just and you can see it right there with the brick sort of storefront look to it. Has sat idle for a number of years, half renovated and half just left unrenovated and the proposal to change the occupancy from a two family with storefronts to a four unit building via interior renovations and a vertical addition in the rear on levels two and three. You can go to the next slide. So that's what the renovated rendering would look like after if approved and construction was completed. There's also an existing headhouse which we're leaving or proposing to leave on the building and then building an exclusive roof deck to the top floor unit as part of the proposal. That roof deck would be pulled in 10 feet so as you can see in this rendering it's not visible by the naked eye. The proposal last time we actually deferred and the reason we deferred is based on the recommendation from BPDA. It had mentioned this falls within a seafraught district and it is in a flood hazard district as well as G-Cod and so we raised the elevation to meet all of the requirements of seafraught which was 19.5 feet or 19.5 feet from elevation. The new plans the were submitted and reviewed by ISD now meet those requirements as well. The proposal is straightforward so it's four units unit one and two would be on the and you can see that right right here in this picture where it says 196 that's actually our building so it goes back there's already an existing first floor that goes out all the way back so we're just simply building which is allowed under the plan E's Boston on top of that existing structure so the building height will remain at three stories we're not going any higher and we're just infilling that back area. Currently it's laid out as two separate retail storefronts one in the back with its own side entrance and then one in the front again those haven't been used in years and so the proposal in working with the Maverick Central Group was to make two smaller units which they preferred on the first floor and then two larger units above on the second and third floor so unit one would be a studio one bath of unit two would be a one bedroom two bath of 690 square feet and then units three and four both would be three bedroom two bath thousand fifteen and eleven hundred and twenty square feet and so in working with the group we were able to get their strong support for the proposal and this just shows you some of the side views and the roof deck on top that we're adding the roof deck as I mentioned would be exclusive to unit four of via that existing headhouse it will be pulled back ten feet and its dimensions are nine foot seven by 24 feet six inches this location is directly across from the airport t station bus stop right on the corner so it makes it a very ideal location for commuters even though we're not able to create parking because we're keeping the existing structure and with that we can answer any questions of the board man thank you are there any questions from the board hearing none man public testimony well madam chair members of the board my name is open Jones representing the mayor's office of the neighborhood services we're going 198 Mayary on the street our office differs to the board's judgment the community process was conducted including in a butters meeting on 9 22 25 that was likely attended by the espossed in community the proposal was also reviewed by the mayor's central neighborhood association at their meeting in October of 2025 the association expressed support at this time the mayor's office the neighborhood services differing support and on this matter thank you ever for your consideration thank you thank you next we have a stefan it my name from the consular coleta oh madam chair members of the board this time the councilor coleta's office would like to go and support the project thank you so much next we have the christian simonelli the morning madam chairman is a board Christian simonelli passing where i would trust and we have both g-card letters from the applicant thank you thank you there are no additional comments any other questions from the board we have motion i'm sure make a motion to approve all the weight plan the partner interview that is second second and mr. stonbridge yeah mr. volanzia yes mr. leon yes as we well yes mr. her yes mr. verdão yes chair votes yes the motion carries thank you very much next we have case beaway one seven six zero zero one three with the address of one ten west conference street the applicant and all the representant of the president would they please find some oil thank you uh secretary stonbridge around chair members of the board my name is march springer architect representing the owner cast com stock who is here as well the earlier presentation there was confusion about where the proposed roof deck was on the existing building so we have done additional drawings here illustrate that um this is our zyclor refusal these are photographs of the site of the proposed deck itself on the living room and then this this was from the meeting with landmarks on site doing a mockup they gave us a letter of exemption which you can see there um so this is the plan showing where the roof deck is so it's on the second floor um over over top of the living room of unit one ten so this this plan view shows the second floor of unit one ten and one twelve so the comments in the last hearing were the fire scape where they were and just to show that they were not impacted so this shows that the debt doesn't impact the fire escape from the shared fire escape of one twelve and one ten by both the front of the back of the building the next drawing shows a section of the existing condition of a section through one ten the salarium on the back is the structure to be demolished and replaced with the project if you go to the next slide so this is the proposed unit the the owners unit makes up the first and second floor there is viewing in the basement and then further units on the top so the project is a staircase which accesses the roof deck which is designed on top of the first floor living room of the owners building and these are just the drawings that you've already seen of the staircase how that rises up if keep keep going that's the living room this is onto the deck itself and these are elevations more to large scale elevations of the project one of the concerns of the and also the the board asked us to reach out to the abutter who uh voice opposition to the project he was um he is the uh owner of the the adjoining unit in one twelve he voice so this this is a photograph showing his unit in one twelve the wind that the this angled window in the back uh looking directly at the chimney is where the project is so um it doesn't really impact his view and then the the next picture is showing a view looking out of the living room um that view remains unobstructed uh the next picture is one showing where you would have to be to see the project actually sitting in the bay window looking out the window and you can see the other window on the kitchen is the fire escape window which you saw on the earlier plan so it's not obstructed one of the other issues was sunlight and sunset so we did a number of sunset views showing that the deck would not impede sunset at any time during the year um uh as as the building is to uh it is situated southeast of one twelve so it's it's impossible for it to impact the sunset views um we did reach out to the abutter uh we had a virtual meeting via zoom with he and his wife as well as a site visit where we installed a mock-up they voiced their concerns of privacy um natural light uh those are the main things and they feel and i i think they still feel that the deck next door will lower their uh value of their condo but it it also must be said that they don't live in that condo um the uh the unit in one twelve has been vacant uh for almost a year uh they their primary residences in the seaport uh where they live so they they don't rent this place out um so the impact i think would be negligible to an empty unit but i hope these drawings do show uh the extent of the project and so it's not on the roof it's over the second floor um and the impact uh one of uh privacy and light has been meeting by the design by the headhouse sloping away from their windows uh as well as uh the largest impact to their windows would be the existing chimney which you can see in this plan is that kind of m-shaped thing it's five feet wide and 13 feet tall it sits directly in front of the window uh and with that um i will take any questions uh from the board thank you thank you can you remind us uh why a um why a hatch is not feasible so a hatch isn't feasible we want to keep the integrity of this copper roof on the living room below which is uh which is a pretty much intact uh 19th century room uh and as well we don't want to access out of the windows uh because that would then impact the fire escape between one ten and one twelve uh we did look at creating a stair up uh beside the building um but that would have it would have had too many kind of structural gymnastics to make that viable and that's when we landed on the idea of replacing the salarium with uh stair access to the deck uh the salarium currently is uh the owners office um she's a real estate agent so the office is uh also in the new plans uh and we found that was the easiest way to access the deck was to just go the normal staircase other questions from the book um good glad to share could we hear from Jeff Hampton that would be great mr. Hampton uh thank you madam chair members of the board Jeff Hampton city of Austin planning department uh we didn't see these new documents uh which is why our recommendation hasn't changed um so uh i would have to leave it to the to the board to make the decision on this but we just didn't have anything to review the chain to make any determination or they're not to change our recommendation okay any other questions from the board now it's called the testimony well madam chair members of the board my name is I have a Jones representing the mayor's office and the board services regarding one ten west concrete street our office differs to the board's judgment a community process was conducted including in a butters meeting held on 8 26 25 that was slightly attended by two self-dened community members who did not provide any questions or feedback my office has also received 14 letters of support from the applicant that were submitted to the board the proposal was not in the catchment of an area for any local civic associations and was not asked to meet with any regarding this proposal at this time the mayor's office the neighbor services the first of board's judgment on this matter thank you everyone for your time consideration thank you thank you we have a more uh more than any please you have negative comments okay yes hi thank you all the way on now uh so been learning my name with momentality uh i live at unit number two west uh one twelve west concrete street immediately adjacent to the proposed project and hundred test uh ten west concrete street where living room is adjacent and at the same level as the proposed deck just to clarify because this issue was raised the reason we haven't been staying there's because i got a very bad injury uh in september i was on purchase for a long time and i'm finally back to health so going up and down the stairs were difficult that's why we weren't staying in this unit however now we plan to fully use it onto the topic the project that's currently designed create significant impact and should not be approved in its current format more more over we only received partial plans for the proposed deck and received the full plans on the evening of march seven this past Saturday we object to the height from burn of the project and the closeness of the deck to our living room window not the entire project our living room has a bay window space which provides most of uh most of the natural light for a living room that will be most directly affected by this project and there's also separate window in our kitchen area which also be impacted by the project because of the project in of the bay window the proposed deck would come as close as about two to two and a half feet from the less left side of our bay window in our living room area the deck floor would also serve above the bottom of our bay windows meaning that people standing on the deck would have a direct line of sight into our living because of that proximity and elevation the project with significantly affect privacy the light and view from our main living space this is confirmed because our architect prepared a section drawing and an existing versus proposed shadow study on the bay window area close to the proposed deck which were submitted to the board these illustrations clearly show the reduction of natural light entering our living space and substantial reduction in privacy and the proposed design for these reasons and given the height and closeness of the proposed deck to our living room windows and the impact on privacy and light we respectfully ask the board to take a careful look at whether this design represents the minimum relief necessary under the notice on thank you thank you thank you for your time thank you makes we have keen domicosh why um I am a butter I live directly across the street at 119 West Conqueror I've seen the plan from designs and I wanted to join today to express my support for the project um the structure is going to be in the rear of the building so it won't be visible but I think the design is not only beautiful but it's also low impact and it's cohesive to the existing aesthetic in the neighborhood for those reasons I strongly support this project thank you thank you thank you next we have the person with the iPhone um uh ingrid devins um can you hear me yes yes uh I live at 110 West Conqueror on the third floor so I'd be right above the deck and I support this project I've seen the plans I do think that it would be a beautiful addition to the neighborhood and 112 which is next to us um that has goes out the back uh it's a little bit of an eye source so I think that this uh what they their proposed project would add a lot of beauty to the the back alley thank you thank you uh next we have Ryan uh yes uh Brian devins also at 110 West Conqueror Street uh right next to 112 uh nice to meet your neighbor I've been here three years so nice to meet you um and I can uh a test that I've seen the plans they look great and I could also attest to the sunset which we see every day and we know the way the sun moves over the course of the the day and uh can't imagine it we compromise any sunlight and uh fully support the project thank you thank you thank you thank you for the unknowledge from all comments thank you other questions from the board anything else the applicant wants to add regarding concerns expressed I mean we did offer to make a portion of the rail like a flocked glass uh to mitigate white issues um however we didn't hear anything back about that so we'd rather just keep it as well I respond to that no you cannot we are in deliberating at this time thank you thank you thank you any other questions from the board may I have a motion uh add a cheer I'll put it in a motion of proof second second mr. Stanley yes mr. Linske yes mr. Liner yes yes miss we well yeah mr. Tarno yes mr. Barnau yes share votes yes the motion carries thank you good luck madam chair um we have interpretation case scheduled for 12 for new time okay so I'll read that into the record and go from there um this is case be away 168 97 94 with the address of 62 to 66 connoisseurs if the applicant and or the representative or president what they put it to the board yes thank you mr. Stanley chairman was the board Richard Lins 2.45 summer street in sparsland the applicant tishner as I indicated to to the board for staff that we are deferring this matter should be one final time as you can see there are a number of violations that are cited we have a number of them removed by our scheme however that particular examiner does no matter with ISD so we're just working on the read assignment so then we can address the last item I think a brief deferral should help us get that completed and hopefully we can withdraw this on a criteria very well what did so we look at it we do equal 28 may fin may 19 to you second it was 2035 thank you okay may I have a motion motion took the front of April the 20th was the 20th of 20th but not 28 okay thank you may I have a second I can just average yeah mr. Valencia yes mr. Lane yes miss we will yes mr. Turner yes mr. Brunel yes share votes yes the motion carries thank you have a great day thank you and with that we'll return to the last case I'm completely out for me alone 30 times print and that would this would be case B.O.A. 179 097 to with the address of 567 to 577 out of the street if the applicant's end to their represent or brother would they please explain to the boy yeah thank you mr. Stembridge good afternoon now chair members the boy this is Mike Ross the law from a principal bell I'm here with the owners of the property Brian and Jason Chavez two brothers who grew up in Dorchester within a couple of miles from this location and still over there today I'm also here with the architect Tim Sheen is on the call this property is an 11,754 double watt consisting of two parcels as you can see here one in front of the other the plan is to renovate the existing structure from a two family to include three units and then given the length we can we can sit on on the first step thank you it's from Patrick given the length a lot to build five connecting townhouses that descend toward the back these eight units total will be sold for home ownership and there will also be one affordable unit available to someone at 80% and median income next slide please mr. Ambassador so this is the architect's site plan and it shows on the units will lay out the atom street is on the right side of the screen that first rectangle there is approximately where the existing property sits and will now become the three floor through units each will be a three bedroom two bath with approximately 1,375 square feet and then behind the existing structure will be the five townhouses unit units with parking they are two bedroom two bath and they're approximately 12 76 square feet there's also here shown four parking spaces along the side of the lot in that area that juts out for a total of nine parking spaces for the eight units which is one less than is required by zone 10 10 would be required by zone and then on the zoning chart that you see just in the upper right hand corner these are the dimensional variances that are needed to reasonably develop this long linear a lot particularly to use that second lot of rare and according to the Boston planning memo which supported this project the dimensional variances are quote similar to the neighboring structures here the fares just slightly over one at one point one at a height these can buy in a 34 there the number of stories for the building is at three which is above the 2.5 requirement but consistent with many of the three-story properties on this side of the road and to the north the additional dimensional variances would be front yard which is an existing violation on the existing structure but more consistent now with the building alignment of the street the side yard on the right side only is a violation is that just over five and a 10 that's also an existing violation and then the rear yard we are providing 15 in a 20 so we can go to the next line now and so these were just some existing images of the property today as you can see there's an existing curb cut and driveway along the left side of the building it will continue to be utilized but the existing garage there will be removed and the driveway will be replaced with pervious pavers to allow brown water to enter the land next slide please this layout here shows at the bottom the basement and then above the first floor plan off the back of these five townhouses at the top of the screen are an exterior stairwell which ties the ground floor patio space to the second floor balcony in each unit and then the front unit also have outdoor space each with their own 180 square foot deck off the main bedroom next slide please this layout here shows the second floor at the bottom and the third floor where the bedrooms the townhouses are and then here you can see the individual second floor decks off the cations of the townhouses on the second floor next slide please and this shows the top of the building feature in roof decks for each of the five townhouses providing maximum useful open space the lower drawing shows the elevation from the driveway side next slide please so these images show the front rear and side elevations for the building i'll point out that the slanted head house on the roof is designed to minimize protrusions next slide please here i wanted to point out two other addresses that are within the same and the adjoining block of this property each has a similar characteristic and that the properties are linear and the structures are set sideways like the proposed project so it's it's something that's already in a current in this area but unlike these two properties five sixty seven atom street does front the sidewalk with its original building so has to not face a blank wall toward the front of the street next slide and last slide so this year's the landscape plan and i'll point out that the existing oak trees at the right rear of the property will remain the driver will be converted to previous pavers there'll be new plantings of three 20 foot American beach trees along the front of the property and then along the side of the property there'll be plantings of five 10 foot birch trees now along with other plantings throughout the site i'll pause there and see if there comments thank you thank you questions from the board yes so for how many units again do you have for this project? eight units so i understand that you need to have a housing agreement with MOVS correct for how many units well it comes out to about 1.3 so according to the ordinance you would round down and you would pay the point three seven access of what's up to get to the 17 so there will definitely be one unit and then we'll probably have to make a payment to the mayor's office of housing but now i'll have to go shade it through that agreement thank you the other thing is that i'm looking at your site plan and spot parking is in a garage but some other parking is outdoors and i'm wondering if you can have you can switch the parking to have one space per unit so you include the open space you solve open space for residents i understand the question um you know so these will these will be i mean the the boring minimal kind of talks about this little bit these will be family sized units the townhouses and so there is a a minimum of one parking space per unit the additional parking spaces might be used for visitors for might be in a case where there's someone in that building has in that set of buildings has a second car these will be condominiums so either the condominium association would you keep those or they'd be sold with the additional unit those will be but definitely the townhouses each have their space the front units which are fourth through don't have any parking in their building so if they wanted to have parking they would have to use you know three of those four that are off to the side and like i said there is a pattern of at least having one parking space especially with condominiums home ownership in this area to be able to allow these family sized units for grocery shopping and that kind of thing thank you any other questions may i call the testimony? Hello Madam Chair members of the board my name is Evan Jones representing the mayor's office of the neighborhood services regarding 557 to 577 annum street or office diverse to the board's judgment a community process was conducted including on a butter's meaning held on to station 24th 2025 attended by several door trust for community members the feedback from this meeting was significant concerns about the parking and the neighborhood and the current issue already facing them being possibly exacerbated and increasing density in the neighborhood additionally we received one letter expressing opposition to the proposal um relaying similar concerns that were expressed in the aboutters meeting the proposal was also reviewed by the St. Mark's area civic association at their meeting on 9 30 25 the association voted two in favor and 12 opposed and has expressed the increased densities too high and may be more amenable to member or to members if there was a reduction of two units from eight to six units a formal opposition email was submitted to the board at the time the mayor's office the neighborhood services different so the board's judgment on this matter thank you everyone for your time consideration Miss Jones can you clarify at the start you mentioned uh concerns uh parking so what was the concern that there was too much on the site or too little in door trust here the concerns are often too little parking for most cases okay thank you hello uh madam chair members of boring lamire miss me happy with the girls office office like going records to board this proposal thank you thank you next we have Andrew a governor hello madam chair members of the board my name is Andrew Galvin representing council Murphy's office she would like to own the record and support this project thank you thank you my chair there are no additional comments anything you want to share just yeah for the record if I may we did your mid i think upwards of 20 letters of support from bonafide residents near the project uh i was hoping this Jones received those if not i can forward them to him but i know the board did receive that's it thank you thank you okay would that any other questions from the board they have a motion let me share and make a more short problem we that provides was that the the house in agreement with the mayor office of housing also the project under the cost project review with the plan department and the special attention to reviewing and increasing the open space with the potential of reducing parking to one space per unit the rest of you okay this is the storage yes mr. Valencia yes mr. Langen yes yes as we will yes mr. Langen yes mr. Renon yes chair votes yes the motion carries thank you very much have a nice day thank you thank you everyone have a great day you