 you you all right morning morning the city of Boston zoning board of appeal hearing for April 11th 2023 is now in session this hearing is being conducted in accordance with the applicable provisions of the open meeting law including the updated provisions enacted by the legislature last year. The new law allows the board to continue its practice of holding virtual hearings until March 2025. This hearing of the board is being held remotely via Zoom webinar event platform. This hearing is also being launched. In order to ensure this hearing of the board is open to the public, members of the public may access this hearing through telephone and video conferencing. The information for connecting to this hearing is listed on today's hearing agenda, which is posted on the public notices page of the city's website, Boston.gov. Members of the public will enter the virtual hearing as attendees, which means you will not see yourself on the screen and you will be muted throughout unless administratively unmuted when asked to comment. Board members, applicants and their attorneys or representatives will participate in the hearing as panelists, and they will appear alongside the presentation materials when speaking. Panelists are strongly encouraged to keep video on while presenting to the board. As with our in-person meetings, comments and support will be followed by comments and opposition. The order of comments is as followed. Selected officials or representatives of elected officials and members of the public. The chair may limit the number of people called upon to offer comment and the time for commenting as time constraints require. For that reason, the board prefers to hear from members of the public who are most impacted by a project. That is those individuals who live closest to the project. If you wish to comment on an appeal, please click the raise hand button along the bottom of your screen and the Zoom webinar platform. Click it again and your hand should go down. When the host sees your hand, you will receive a request to unmute yourself. Select yes and you should be able to talk. If you are connected to the hearing by telephone, please press star 9 to raise and lower your hand. You must press star 6 to unmute yourself after you receive the request from the host. Those called upon to comment will be asked to state their name and address first and then provide their comment. In the interest of time and to ensure that you have enough time to do so, please raise your hand as soon as Mr. Stembridge reads the address into the record. Do not raise your hand before the relevant address is called, or the meeting host will not know to call on you at the appropriate time. These instructions will be repeated throughout the hearing. Okay. Mr. Stembridge. Good morning, Madam Chair. Morning. Ms. Betta Baraza. Good morning, Madam Chair. Good morning, Mr. Shepard. Good morning, Madam Chair. Good morning, Ms. Wewell. Good morning, President. Good morning, Mr. Valencia. Good morning, President. Mr. Langham. Good morning, Madam Chair. Good morning. Mr. Stembridge. Yes, Madam Chair. The rest order of business is the approval of the hearing minutes. And you can call on the program service. No, board. I give the table a pi jal Standards? I do get the measure. I have the measure. Do get the measure. Yes. Uh, ok. We have Guthrie Portellan families or neighbors. Hipster County High School campus出 a list of votes. Excuse me, I have a license when I need bucket. Can I ask foribrillation? Can I please check here? Sure. Okay. Yes, thank you Mr. Miss Beto-Barrosa. Yes, Mr. Shepherd. Yes, Miss Wewell. Yes, Mr. Valencia. Yes, Mr. Langham. Yes, Chair also loads. Yes, motion carries All right Next move on 9 30 a.m. The first is case be away 101 9011 the address being 22 to 24 Wimbledon Street I'm sorry This is the second request for the succession Do expire on May 8, 2023 It granted the new expiration date will be May 8, 2024 Is the applicant or representative say anything on yes, I am Morning morning madam chair. I'm Mr. Ford attorney Garrett Small of a business suggest that you want to go They were here seeking an extension of the board's prior decision for this private direct for town What time frame do you need? We're requesting a year man fair Okay, I'm obvious Yeah, that should be available Is there is there specific time that you guys are Here for the expiration would be for us to may 8, 2024 Okay, great may I have a motion? I'll make a motion to grant the extension to May 8, 2024 I have a second Mr. Stembridge Yes, Ms. Betabraza. Yes, Mr. Shepherd. Yes As we well, yes, Mr. Relencia. Yes, Mr. Lennon. Yes, chair also votes. Yes motion carries. Thank you Thank you, Mr. Chairman Next we have case of the away 982435 The address being 198 Woodrow Avenue This is the second request for extension To expire on May 8, 2023 If granted the new expiration date may 8, 2024 I believe yeah, all the applicants present Mr. Small. Yes, good morning again. Now Jim I was the board attorney direct small of this just for a thousand broke Today again, we're here seeking a one-year extension of forced prior decision to record three families growing on a thick goodbye May I have a motion? I make a motion to grant the extension to May 8, 2024 Thank you, May I have a second? Well second Mr. Stembridge. Yes, Ms. Betabraza. Yes Mr. Shepherd. Yes, Ms. Wewout. Yes, Mr. Relencia. Yes, Mr. Langham. Yes, chair also votes. Yes motion carries All right You one more time, don't we Mr. Stembridge Next we have case B-O-A-768729 The address being 79 to 89 West Broadway This is the request for the extension looks like we skipped ahead I don't know. Yeah, thank you This is the worth request for the extension to expire on May 11, 2023 If granted the new registration date will be made on 11, 2024 I believe that's from Mr. Small Yes, it is the one you get madam chairman is the board attorney direct small Never business. That's a one-top to grow again. We're here on this one to express a one-year connected on this project at 39, 89 West Broadway We are in the process of analyzing the planned grid at the gay And it's just requiring a little bit Thank you may I have a motion? Motion to grant the extension to May 11, 2024 May I have a second second Mr. Stembridge. Yes, is bed browser. Yes, Mr. Shepherd. Yes This wewout. Yes, Mr. Relencia. Yes Mr. Lennon. Yes, ma'am. Thank you chair also votes. Yes motion carries good luck. Thank you Next we have case B.O.A. 115 1358 With the address of 1200 soldiers field road This is the first request for an extension The decision will expire on April 23rd of this year If granted the new extension date will be April 23rd, 2024 It's the applicant for a representative present Yes, thank you Paul Rufo madam chair members of the board Paul Rufo Smith-Dougand Cornell and Gala Our Boston address is 88 Broad Street in Boston. This is our first request. This is the The new WBZ TV station at 1200 soldiers field road We're close to filing a building permit and we would ask for one year's extension for this project. Thank you May I have a motion? I make the most in the grant the extension to April 23rd, 2024 May I have a second? I'll second Mr. Stembridge. Yes Miss Betta-Borazo. Yes Mr. Shepherd. Yes. Miss Weewell. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Chair also votes yes motion carried. Thank you very much Next we have case B.O.A. 853785 You're just being 68 Forestry. This is the third request for an extension which will expire on March 1st, 2023 We will need an extension date Is the applicant's Or the representative present Yes Yes, I'm looking for an extension to project and I'd like a year extension And what's the reason? Uh What's the reason for the extension just delays in the project? Well Apart from health reasons The the architect that did this project filed for bankruptcy We could not get a response from for Many many months I finally found him The day I found him was in court The people at the counter court filing for bankruptcy for both him and his company And so that kind of set us back I have a new architect now on a new y'all set to go Not even think that everything is submitted. I just have a couple of things for this new architecture to get me Excellent. Thank you May I have a motion? I Motion to grant extension a year from the date of a natural exact date March the the would expire on March 1st of this year So motion to grant extension to March 1st, 2024 May I have a second? Circuit Thank you, Mr. Stembridge Yes Miss Barbaraza Yes Mr. Shepard Yes Miss Wewout Yes Mr. Valencia Yes Mr. Lennon Yes Chair also votes yes motion carries good luck Thank you so much Next we have case VOA1029694 The address being 10 stone we wrote This is the first request for an extension Decision due to expire on April 16th of this year If granted the new expiration date will be April 16th of 2024 Is the applicant to represent the person? Yes Morning. Can you introduce yourself and the reason for the extension? Good morning, members of the board. My name is Matt Hensey. I'm a development consultant for the Development team on this project Stone and Berkeley LLC. It's a partnership of Causeway Development And Jamaica playing neighborhood development The project is 100% affordable, supported by Boston MOH The project is pretty much shovel ready We're about to file a building permit And we take a quick pause. I think Mr. Valencia is trying to recuse himself. Is that right? Yes, I'm sorry. I forgot. I have a good reason for this. You're fine. Thank you. Please continue. Thank you, Mr. Valencia So yeah, we're about ready to file a building permit about to go into finance closing mode And we're ready to roll and we think we're going to break ground on this great project within By the end of the summer So one year extension would be plenty and that's where requesting Perfect. Thank you. May I have a motion? I'll make a move I'll make a motion to grant the extension at April 16th, 2024. May I have a second? Second Thank you, Mr. Stembridge Yes Miss Betta-Barraza. Yes Mr. Shepherd. Yes Miss Wewelp. Yes Mr. Langham. Yes Share up the votes. Yes motion carries. Good luck. Thank you members of the board Next we have case BOA 102 1095 The address of 11th annual street This is the first request for extension This is it says you more expire on April 23rd of this year If granted the new expiration date will be April 23rd of 2024 Is the applicant or the representative president? Yes. Thank you, Mr. Stembridge Thank you Madam. She had members of the board attorney Jeff Drego and Drego and Scott with the business address of 11th Beacon Street here on behalf of the applicant seeking a one-year extension For an article 80 for project at 11th annual street This project did get delayed due to financing caused mostly by the pandemic Financing is now in place and within about three months my client should be applying is ready to be ready to apply for the permit So I see no one here extension Thank you may I have a motion? I make a motion to grant the extension till April 23rd 2024 May I have a second? Miss A. Grant Mr. Stembridge. Yes, Miss Bedoparaza. Yes, Mr. Shepard. Yes This is we well. Yes, Mr. Valencia. Yes Mr. Langham. Yes, thank you. She also votes yes motion carries. Good luck Thank you, Mr. Board Next on the list we have BOA It's BOA 486152 with the address of 270 do adjust the revenue This is the fourth request for an extension which will expire on July 14th of this year If granted the new expiration date will be July 14th 2024 Is the applicant or the representative permit Yes, good morning madam chair. Mr. Stembridge members of the board Mark LeCas LaCasla 75 Arlington Street in Boston attorney for the current project proponent Which is different than the original and subsequent project proponent This is a prominent location corner of Dorchester Avenue D street in South Boston The existing buildings that used to occupy this site were demolished in 2019 And then the pending project ran headlong into COVID and other subsequent Problems there is a new development team on board with the with the owner We are in pre-file notice the project change discussions with the MP and with the BPDA to incorporate some design changes That have been requested by the BPDA So we are requesting it when you're extension through July 14th of 2024 to complete that process and get this project back on track It's 114 units with 20 IDP units Thank you, Mr. LeCasla. May I have a motion? Make a motion to grant the extension to July 14th 2024 Man second Second Mr. Stembridge Yes Mr. Debraza Yes Mr. Shepard Yes Ms. Wewell Yes Mr. Valencia Yes Mr. Langham Yes Chair also votes yes motion carries good luck Thank you kindly Next we move on to board final opportunities cases 930 AM Kick press 1 is case BOA 109 7311 With the address being 14th Skylon Street It's the applicant for the representative present Yeah, this is Mike Ross Good morning. I'm with the law from Prince Nobel at one international place. I'm here with Eric Zacherson who is the architect There should be a set of plans, Madam Chair, that I could just briefly kind of update you with and lock you through Thank you There's something I can Yeah, okay, so let me kind of tell you what what's going on and we can scroll through this So this was before your your board on September 28th 2021 In the applicant then was approved for Four units of housing and seven parking spaces We are through the board of final arbiter now today proposing Two additional units and one additional parking spaces none of the zoning itself will change in terms of The actual variances which I'll walk you through in a moment Just three variances will be shifted as a result of this change and this change is in order to make this project financial revival One of those six units I should mention also will also be set aside as an affordable unit And I should say all six units will be homeownership so um, I had slides marked as a03 but That here is your floor plan and I did have some existing condition Is going to show you it's an empty lot and it's in a three F 5,000 district in Roxbury where there are very large houses Really filled out Onto the onto the lots they sit And in this particular lot of tempeh I think there's a uh an old Old garage in the back or an old an old something in the back But but the house itself has been clear um With the uh we can maybe go on the next slide. I mean this is a floor plan it shows you the park. Okay. Here we go So yeah, that that shows you I mean tilted of course, but um, I don't know if the ambassador can rotate 90 degrees but In any case those were the slides. I was just talking about if you go to the next slide It's going to show your comparison of what we proposed last time and what we proposed this time Uh met him and basser. I don't know if you can go to slide seven perhaps Well, that didn't do what I thought I was going to do, but that's okay Let me just describe the uh the difference here um between the first and the last as it applies to the zoning itself So the the FAR for this district is a point eight FAR and the original one we proposed back in September 21 Was 0.91 was the FAR We've added an additional 600 uh square feet in order to make this project work And so we're now at one point 0 so we're at 7 0 11 square feet on a 7 0 11 Uh square foot lot that number you see a teal told building bros Shows you there. It's just about 6,000 square feet Of course that doesn't include your hallways and your condens space and that stuff Those are just the units themselves And in terms of the units um, we can probably go back up and I can kind of walk you through the floor plans Uh, if you go to maybe Sure, let's go up one more on the ambassador The ground floor So ground floor the first floor right there start with that unit that's um So that shows unit one Um, and that is a two bedroom two bath and it's 1156 square feet And then level two which is just slightly below that a man ambassador right there Yep, you'll see three units. So um Unit two in the front is a two bedroom two bath and that's eight hundred eighty eight square feet and then unit three and unit four Uh, are kind of running the the long back of this along the bias those are both two-bedroom to bath each nine twenty three square feet And here the ambassador has brought us to the uh Level three and roof, okay, and then level three contains two units unit five which is a two bedroom one bath And that's ten ten square feet and then unit six is a two-bedroom one bath and that's ten twenty five square feet and the next slide should show you the elevations with bubbling on what changed um in the uh in the project probably the most substantial change if there's now at one parking one additional parking space along the left side of the building That wasn't there previously and then the remaining um Seven parking spaces are just on surface parking lot as they were before From the streets from looking at it uh, you are um You know, you're looking at pretty much exactly what was there before and then um, I think I mentioned the rear yard setback the rear yard setback increased So the three is FAR the rear yard setback increased by Or decreased by nine point eight feet. So now the setbacks at 24 feet off the rear So it came back a little bit more to a compass a compass that a 613 square feet I mentioned and then as a result of that it shipped to the open spaces So instead of having 422 square feet per unit we have 266 square feet per unit Um, I just mentioned I guess made close by saying that the um, so again, just to remind you these are six homeowners ship units one would be affordable There would be some green planting in the front of the building a small tree off to the left of the front Where we've been working with Councillor Anderson's office also on supporting a Housing stabilization fund in addition to the affordable unit that we'd be doing there. I'll pause there madam chair and see if there's any questions Thank you, Mr. Ross any questions from the ward Yes, I have a couple of questions Can you please describe the committee process in terms of um, in terms of the initial support and then the increase of two additional dwelling units Yeah, so um, I mean we have a separate partner who might be on the phone uh to Shana Sullivan she's she's also the general contractor She has separately been doing outreach Um for uh for the project um and then she's been dedicated to Um to that effort um, so she has gone back to Abutters um, she's she might be on the call. I don't know if she wants to lift her hand or participate, but um We had a meeting last night as she describes that she had gone back to be a butters and share with them that of the lands and had met with the the various neighborhood groups and Has had done further outreach to make them aware of this These changes that we're proposing today So I guess the follow-up question would be make them aware versus are they in support? Did they have any objections questions concerns We do have most I think most support. I think they you know they've come to the hearing here to participate I know that there is definitely one person that was opposed to the original project that then that person I'm sure is gonna be opposed to this project as well, but the uh remainder of the group I understand isn't support and came here to speak and we hope councilor Anderson is on the call today She expressed her support of the project as well Madam chair has um Bob de Mabel seen the parking plan And has he commented on the Minibility I see Jeff's hammeries. Do you want to speak Jeff? Uh, yes, thank Madam chairman's for the original proposal for this came back to the vpda back in July of 21 Are the original proposal was for nine units as nine parking spaces and we had made a recommendation Uh for denial without prejudice because it was too big um largely that the green spaces can be paved over I think they were taking out mature trees at the time and we asked that park and be reduced At that specific time and that was for nine spaces It was deferred it was originally supposed to be here in july was deferred until september where Um as mr. Ross said it was approved as four units so one from nine to four From july to september and then now they're asking for The additional two units in an additional parking space This is just something i just wanted to give a brief history to the board that it went from nine to nine Four to seven now it's going to six to eight so i just wanted to get some Uh history on the this proposed project That's helpful. Uh is mr. Demi go on or norm do you have any uh notes from him? um Uh don't know if he's all maddened chair i have anna with her hand with i'm not sure if she's Part of the team or Yes mr. Ross is there an anna on your team? I don't believe there's an anna on our team. Yeah i just uh maddened chair on the parking just so you know um Going to eight keeps us within the you know within the allowable zoning it's a one point oh uh ratio requirement for this part of the district Can you can you please just um Briefly comment again what has increased from the original variance Yes, yeah, um really three main areas Elboros the the f.a. r has increased from a point nine one to a one point oh That's an increase of six hundred and thirteen square feet The rear yard has now decreased The setback is now 24 feet Um a decrease by about nine point eight feet And the open space as a result of that decrease per unit Went from four hundred and twenty two In a square two 266 square feet per unit And the envelope has stayed the same the building envelope Yeah, the side yards are the same front yard is the same The height is the same. It's just that bump out in the back And one of the parking spaces came inside as well Okay, thank you. I don't have any other questions any other questions from the board Okay, uh, is there public testimony Francis? I have no A's T. I'm in the chair Okay With that may I have a motion Mom should I make a motion to approve with me being the eighth time review May I have a second? Madam chair. Yes, I'll be there interrupt. I just I have a raised hand now Okay, let's take it. Okay Lee you've been unmuted if you can state your name and I'll just for the record please Hi, this is Chum Lee from 165 three months three and bought some assos I'm sorry for the lateness, but I'm not technically so the me button Didn't seem very obvious to me so I have a problem guys, but I'm I'm talking to part of the 14 sky with three Project from what I know by the project To what it does what it is today and no one saw the principal in this company I truly believe in what he says that he's gonna do for the table You're trying to do for 14th college to be to turn it into a much more livable and More community type of a neighbor, so I really appreciate it like again. What's your connection to this project? You're not in a butter. It doesn't sound like you're in a butter. No, no, I'm just a resident of Boston. I'm sorry Thank you. Thank you very much Thank you Any other raised hands? No, no other raised hands. I'm sure. Okay. Sorry about that Well continue with the motion. I believe Mr. Valencia made a motion that was seconded Uh And I just started calling a local assemblage Mr. Stembridge Yes Miss Betta Baraza I'm good. I'm gonna post the project just because I feel that when we hear board final arbiter cases they typically tend to be minutia Very small but I feel like There hasn't been a vetted out public process and that's why I'm voting against it Thank you mr. Shepard I'm sorry mr. Shepard yes Okay, thank you miss we well yes Mr. Valencia yes, mr. Langham no It sure also votes no motion does not carry Okay Mr. Hopper do we need another vote or is that? Yeah This is how they're mandatory at this point you can ask for a dismissal without prejudice If no motion is before then it could be a straight denial of that Okay Does someone want to put forth the alternate motion Of course a motion of denial without prejudice Okay, man, I have a second Mr. Stembridge Miss Betta Baraza yes, mr. Shepard Yes, miss we well yes Mr. Valencia Yes, mr. Langham yes Here also votes yes motion carries That external list we have case b08 1046403 The address of 515 east second street It's the applicants for the representative present Yes, Tommy noto Yes, can you introduce yourself in the project what you're seeking today Come on, Madame champ. It's Tommy's Tommy noto owner of 515 519 second street Um, we were approved by the board bpda ZBA at strong community support for um roof jacks and headhouses As we go through the process um, there was a There was an individual on the bpda that didn't want the headhouses and they want the hatches This is obviously a violation of the the building code as we found out going through 1010 Masshave and it's a safety issue No code issue for safe access Our director buddies in the round um, which I've taken pictures of approximately 20 20 Direct about is within you know a thousand feet have all headhouses and we didn't know why we were only went To the final um The design review we were denied the hatch the headhouses So we came back we did some homework um went to 1010 masshave spoke with Uh a few people and they told us that it was against building code and that we should go to the final final op So here we are today Thank you. How many um, how many roof decks and headhouses are you proposing? They were um we were I just a Opposed Proposing just one in the rear Whether the head The hatches um, we don't need all several uh, we don't need all five headhouses We could just get away with one and now be fine when our pretty um It's more or less a safety safety uh, it's you for Goffa bit something happens on the roof deck and then after the two of us are just felt possible Metapurnax for a clarity um, so You would be okay with one headhouse versus six weeks in the In the in the rear yes because we already started the building um and we're we're we're far along We don't need the six headhouses that come from each unit. We need to use one in the rear where the hatch is now uh Like I stated prior There was a miss out miss out with the bpda and someone pushed this along and um As our lawyers and you know a few people from 1010 looked at this They said it's against building code and okay, so with the one headhouse with with the one headhouse Are you going to design a common a common deck for all the Yeah, so it'll be okay. It'll be um There'd be one common deck off. They'd be There'd be six Private decks off one common deck Okay, they still have the elevator and then you'll still have the elevator overrun. Okay. I don't have Of course. Yeah. Thank you. No, thank you Right any other questions from the board Okay, is there any public testimony on this? We did have strong neighborhoods Okay Francis yes, I say um, I have no attendees with their hands raised. I just have Jeff Did Jeff Hanson? Yeah, do you want to speak Jeff? Yeah, I just want to clarify the record about him chair that this is not something that the bpda pushed This is in the act to work sit in from the board peel um that says So I will be back in what it says Would you have a correct date of um I missed them out mine on email So the subject of bpda design reviews are replaced headhouses with hatch access So it's probably a decision not a chair so they'd have to remove the visor Got it When one was this approved Jeff do you have that? Uh It was April 12, 2021 is the approval date It was heard on February 2, 2021 Thank you Any other questions from the board? Okay here none may have a motion Madam chair, I would like to put four of emotion To approve the request for the proviso that it would be to work with the bpda to design one headhouse and the overrun Elevator overrun is is is adequate And the removal of the proviso previous proviso to To very yes to replace and then just to give context to the board I was able to review the drawings in the the past zoom recording There was just major concern that there were six Exactly in her pose And my understanding is that um that would Now be within the contacts in terms of the architecture character of the vicinity So this is why I'm putting forward this motion Thank you may have a second I said okay Mr. Stembridge Yes It's better brazen yes Mr. Shepard Is we well yes Mr. Valencia yes Mr. Lennon yes Chair also votes yes motion carries good luck. Thank you Next we have Groundwater Conservation Highway District We have two companion case First being case of the away one four four two three nine zero The address being two thirty eight Commonwealth Avenue And the companion case to that is V.O.A. one four four two three nine one With the address being two forty two forty Commonwealth Is the represent the applicant to represent the present This Mr. Mianca yes Yes, I am Great can you walk us through your So I think the The reason why we're here is for the G-Cod so the groundwater We've got a recharge system that's been designed and leave approved going in the back of the building to catch Roof water runoff I'm not sure what else What are their information you need for me Do you uh is Mr. Semineleon yes madam chair good morning Do you remember the board Christian Seminele Boston groundwater Trust and we have both the Boston water and sewer approval and no harm letters from the applicant Great. Thank you. Thank you. Any other questions from the board Okay, may I have a motion I Masha make a motion to upload May I have a second? Thank you, Mr. Sembridge Yes, Ms. Betabraza yes, Mr. Shepherd yes, Ms. Wewell yes, Mr. Valencia yes Mr. Langham yes, there also votes yes motion carries good luck. Thank you Yes Next we move on to the hearing scheduled for 9 30 a.m. Excuse me Um at this time I will ask if there are any withdrawals or the phones from any of these cases on what's the this time Then with that Forward the first case on based on list is BOA 1422181 The address being one Westbrook street is the applicant or the representative person I'm a conga here with the dam perruzi her architectural take the lead in the presentation. Thank you John you want to do any kind of intro on Boston scores Just spend a very high level also a Boston scores is a nonprofit based here in Boston. We've been providing programs across the city In East Boston for 25 years This project is to renovate a existing athletic field to provide our free and low-class programs to local Youth in East Boston and surrounding communities We expect to be able to serve over a thousand students each year on completion of the project Great and the same plan we see in front of you is This these are post changes you see one large soccer field that can be divided up into three small and practically spills Lower left is a small soccer field and in the far right another soccer field And then right above that That field on the right is the actual structured with the block of rooms and Photo facilities for Disciplines There's a small play area bottom of the site to middle If you at the top of the site is going to be a small community garden area waving my purse And the left hand side of the site is Plant parking spaces participants in their parents Let's look at the next slide Which shows the planting Should be a slide you the actual building itself you can see the building itself in the middle right this is this in the building itself Right now It's in a flood Flood We're looking for relief on the height limit from 15 feet to 18 feet to top of the building and that is Since it's getting the panels out of the flood point You And you can see on that floor of plan the facilities their toilet facilities Uh primarily there's a storage building where the store Main is equipped for the field itself And then there are the mechanicals you can see on the plan will last Um Those are the mechanicals that we're hoping to get out of the flood We'll leave and High 15 to 18 So we're building the flood plain it's the building height And it also it's a private recreation field and residential district that we're hoping for Thank you Any questions from the board? Yes quick question is they feel going to be open only to your members or to the community in general So the field will be primarily used for participants in programs that are operated by Boston scores um this space is cohabitated with the Silesian Boys and Girls Club so as to participants from the Silesian Boys and Girls Club It's also immediately adjacent to the Brooke Public Charter School And they will use the space for physical education classes We are While it's a gated space and it will be locked every evening. We are making it Available occasionally to the public so they can use the community gardens we can incorporate some features such as A playground area walking track some picnic tables So um we don't have a specific commitment to opening it to the public But for the first time we do plan on making it available um or occasional public use So it will be will be open to make the space available to a public during the weekends Our the current intention is to have an opening open to the public on weekends in the mornings And then occasional times um over the course of the week but we don't have a final schedule on that regard Okay, thank you Any other questions from the board Hearing none may I have public testimony? Yes, Madam Chair members of the board Connor Newman with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services This time of Mayor's Office it's deferred to the judgment of this board Uh some background information on the community process Oh and s host and the butters meeting for this project on January 12th 2023 Um more than a dozen of butters were in attendance Many of butters voice concerns regarding water runoff and flooding of the butting properties Butters also voice concerns regarding the loss of parking when games are taking place as well As well as vehicles driving through private streets to get to the fields some of the butters in attendance However did voice support for the project as they said this will bring a good space for young residents to stay active The project presented to the Harborview Neighborhood Association on two different occasions Some members stated their properties have been flooded since that you do work on the site um residents also had questions about the lighting at night and concerns about noise and parking Ultimately the association voted to support the project with 24 residents in favor and 11 in opposition Our data information we deferred to the judgment of this board. Thank you. Thank you Mr. Newman Madam, I do have two raised hands. Okay. Thank you Gail you've been unmuted if you can state your name and address for the record please Yes, my name is Gail Miller. I am resident at 232 orientat least Boston I there's recent environmental concerns and I'm just curious about what is the turf being composed of is it going to be natural grass or is it going to be The um the I'll call it fake whenever There's a big concern these days in neighborhoods about um, you know the the The pollution and and the sense of not being able to be kind of absorbed into the groundwater and then the P-fast that are coming off. Please. Thank you. So are you in support or opposition or you just have this questions Uh, well, I have this question and then and it would depend on what the turf is whether or not I would support or not. Thank you You know, I raised hand. Yes, I do Sebastian. You've been unmuted if you can state your name and address for the record please Good morning, Madam Chair members of the board. This is Sebastian Parap from a concert bledos office Stay I'm here to show the support the concert for this project. Thank you. Thank you I have my Mr. Pres We want to mention rooms the board might not be as per percent in the carpenter's union and behalf of Hondas or What members want to go and recommend the support of this right? Thank you Canceler Murphy's office? Good morning, Madam Chair members of the board Tom Manion of concert air Murphy's office at this time Constable Murphy would also like to go on record and support. Thank you Thank you Before we take a vote with the proponent like to respond to that question about the turf Uh, it is artificial turf. It is not natural grass Uh, my understanding about the composition of the materials that it's key bass streets Um, I'd also remind everyone that this is going through the conservation the conservation commission process now Thank you. Okay, would that be a motion? I I Know I'm sure I think this project is going to provide a big benefit to the participants from the programs also to the community at large I really hope that the proponent can find ways to partner with local organizations and in the space And the fields during the weekend for the local communities and with that I would like to put forward a motion to approve the project And I'm a second Okay, Mr. Stembridge Yes, Ms. Beto-Brasa Yes, Mr. Shepard Yes, Ms. Wewell Yes Mr. Valencia Yes, Mr. Lainham Yes, Chair also votes yes motion carries good look so much Next on the list we have two companion cases The first being case B08 14 0 5 4 9 6 with the address of E4 street With along with that we have case B08 14 0 5 4 9 4 the address being 8 36 E4 In the applicant or their representative friend Yes, Mr. Stembridge thank you good morning Adam Chair members of the board. My name is George Marancy I'm an attorney with the business address of pre 50 West Broadway in South Boston My client is Stuart Malale who was proposing to Change 8 36 East 4th Street from a single family dwelling to a two family dwelling and add a new dormer and Rear addition is also proposing a new pre story to family dwelling at 8 34 East 4th Street Size of the site is 6,642 square feet the zoning district is MMR multifamily residential under article 68 With respect to the units for 8 36 East 4th Street which is the existing building That is currently a single family with four bedrooms that would be transformed again by means of a dormer and rear addition into two units Unit one would be a three bedroom or approximately 148 square feet unit two would also be a three bedroom of approximately 106 square feet the new building at 8 34 East 4th Street would be also a two family dwelling unit one would be a three bedroom of approximately 1919 square feet unit two with three bedrooms of approximately 2286 square feet each unit would have three obstreet parking spaces The FAR here would be approximately 4th floor whereas 2.0 was allowed by zoning 8 34 East 4th Street would rise to a maximum height of 30 feet 8 36 would rise to a maximum height of 31 feet 10 inches the maximum allowable height here is 40 feet The violations and requested zoning relief are rather minimal for a 34 there's cited violation for extension into a rear yard of 1,000 or more square feet This cited violation frankly does not really make sense since there is no extension here to an existing building Article 68 section 8.4 Which gives rise to this site of violation is relates to an extension to an existing building into a rear yard area. This is a new building at 8 34 It's an ERT application. There's also a cited violation for a 34 or maneuverability for the parking area for 8 36 which is the existing single family which is being converted into a two family There's a cited violation for roof structure restrictions. There's no roof deck being proposed This violation is cited because the proposed dormer would change the roof profile and under article 68 roof roof of extension section if a roof profile is changed There is a citation not the only for a roof deck. There's a cited violation on this refusal letter for insufficient radio I'd set back the plans examiner actually dates requirement for 40 foot minimum rear step back on the refusal letter That is in fact incorrect the minimum rear step back here is 20 feet the provided setback is 26.3 feet Making the cited violation around the us there's a cited violation for an addition of more than 1000 square feet The rear of an existing building which in this case is correct because there is an existing building There's also a cited violation of two buildings on a single line These are going to be condominium units in one condominium association and my client elected to not do two things one Connect the buildings above a central driveway Just would have increased the massing of the of the structure and He did decide to provide a single driveway with a single curb providing access to the parking six parking spaces For both buildings because of those facts and because the maneuverability area here for the units also would require Moving between what would have been too long to be subdivided this which is self-exotic violation my client elected to Not subdivided into incur the violation two buildings on us on on the same law There's also a maneuvering violation cited for 836 I want to point out that there is a maneuverability area of a few hundred square feet at the ground level Below the addition to the rear of a 306 east four straight which should provide for adequate maneuverability for The six tires and the test status by the office-free parking requirements For the three additional units under article 68 with that madam share of all funds and I'll take any questions that the board members may have Thank you Any questions from the board Okay Hearing none man take public testimony Ah, yes, madam chair members of the board Connor Newman with the mayors office and neighborhood services this time the mayors Offset to defer its judgment this board our office helmet butters meeting on November 30th over 20 butters were in attendance I've proposed an answered questions that arose during the meeting there was a request for a shadow study be done This was completed in residence were given the results One resident from entry thought that it seemed reasonable Understand that they're in contact with the city point neighborhood association And with that we deferred to the judgment of the board. Thank you Good morning the madam of the chair members of the war on a call that on from council president flings office The councilor would like to go on recording support based on feedback from neighbors and good faith compromises on both sides This the councilor also requests that the developer continue to work with the neighbors or many quality of live issues that arise during the construction phase Thank you Madam chair members of the board all solving the city council live from Michael clarity Uh, the councilor would acknowledge the the commuila for the winter drafting article 68 However, there are projects that do have merit. This is one of those Uh, the councilor would echo the sentiments of council. Uh, council president flings office make your record and support Mr. Manian But uh, you madam chair members of the board talking and council air the Burpees office at this time councilor murky would also like to go and support of this project. Thank you Thank you That's your son raised hands um, there's also Luann on the panelist land Yes Yes, good morning. Can you hear me? Yes, we can Okay, so the way I know Connor president of the city point neighborhood association At this point in time we will go unrecord as non opposition As we were unable to actually vote on the project pending um, a second of letters meetings which did not happen So we will go with non-opposition in this Thank you and there are no raised hands, Madam chair Thank you madam chair can I ask did a BTD review this in terms of maneuverability and parking because the parking lot seems a little bit Uh, narrow in terms of maneuverability I'm not sure as mr. DeMico on If not mr. Stembridge do you have any notes from him? No, I don't that chair Okay, so possibly a proviso uh, in emotion Uh, with that may have emotion Madam chair, I like to prefer emotion of approval with uh, two proviso one being BPD design review on the site planning to ensure a safe pedestrian walkway Um to the parking space and then the other proviso is to work with BTD on the parking layout and maneuverability An amount of parking spaces Yes May I have a second Second mr. Stembridge Yes Ms. Bedoubaraza Yes Mr. Shepard Yes Ms. Weow Yes Mr. Valencia Yes Mr. Langham Yes Chair also votes yes motion carries good luck Thank you Next we have case DOA 1337606 With the address of 520 W Street Is the applicant or the director's own president Uh, Dave Tregorth is here along with Sandra McCrune executive director Children and Services of Roxbury And John Padmore in the Architect for Mass Design Sandra's quickly going to say a few things just about who children's services of Roxbury And then I'll run through the presentation quickly. Thank you Good morning Madam Chair. Thank you for having us today As Dave said my name is Sandra McCrune. I'm the president and CEO of Children's Services of Roxbury And you go to the next slide CSR as we are affectionately called has been in the community for 50 years and We reside here at 524 520 Dudley Street Where the largest black lead Non-profit in the Commonwealth and we serve 6000 people across Massachusetts were located out of four cities across Massachusetts of those six thousand people that we serve of 5,000 of those people reside in the Boston area Our mission is to create peace of mind for children and families and Massachusetts and we say that because if you Don't have peace of mind it's hard to You know take the next step if you're homeless to you know figure out your housing etc um So for 50 years we've been a lifeboat for the children and family that we serve we have five Departments through which we provide as many as 20 programs Under our housing family stabilization affordable Child care mental health and you've development um and given the time I will go into all of those but they are comprehensive programming uh that we serve to children and families and um With that I am gonna spread it back over to um, sorry. Let me go to the next slide please Yeah, I'll turn this back over to you day Thank you Sandra. So location is 504-520 Dudley Street Close to the Newby and Square bus stations just down from Dudley St. Next slide Uh, and you could just see a perspective of two historic brick buildings that um are right along Dudley street Next slide These were originally uh, I think carriage and trolley barns That have been offices for quite some time youth buildings here. They're two distinct different buildings next slide Children's services of Roxbury purchased the buildings several years ago And are starting a renovation project with hope for approval here today To achieve several project goals that you can see sustainability Accessibility bringing daylight and most importantly connecting these two buildings It's next blood um You can see just how these are two different buildings as a playground in the back Early education is a major component in this building currently that we want to expand on There's also very small parking lot in the back. This site is immediately adjacent to the Shirley used this house Which is in support next slide Um, and you could just see we're creating this sort of center Each room that will connect these two buildings fully right now. There's really no connection next slide Um also opening it up to the street sort of there's very little sort of street access into these buildings um as well, so we want to make this really a community center uh that It already serves the community but make it even more open and welcoming next slide You can keep moving Just more So this is the after uh, you can see the atrium glass atrium in the middle you can see an extension of an annex That's on the back uh, there's already an annex back there that's center block and sort of shed like Construction uh, that will be replaced with um, you know a building that's or an extension that's fully integrated into the Into the floor plan uh next slide you can see the renovated playground area Sort of an events space in parking lot that's going to do double duty serve as a parking lot in the off hours And when there's events creating a connection with the Shirley used this house which is right across from Rockford street And you can see that atrium between the two buildings that's created next slide Just some indoor renderings next slide. It's the front porch as it's called You can see that atrium on the left. It's going to be created between these two historic buildings next slide Not a front facade which will be just much more Transparent invisible to what's going on inside next slide And just looking down the other street on this one as well Just in terms of what this translates into right now these are five parcels that will be consolidated cuts across the multi-family Along the front and the three family along the back along burrell and rockford streets like flood And you can see where we're adding square footage So we've got the rear extension that's sort of creating that facilitating that connection to the the rear annex and then you've got the Atrium that's also coming out towards Dudley street Obviously not going over the property line but coming out to create that connection between these buildings So this is just all of what we're adding to the building next slide And it creates these these variances that we're requesting have they are Front yard insufficient side yard insufficient off street parking insufficient and extension of a non-conforming use So with that I'm be happy to take any questions Thank you Both any questions from the board Okay Yes, this paper also no questions. Okay. Thank you. Would that man public testimony Yes, good morning Madam Chair members of the board Keisha Santana with the mayor's office and neighborhood services And a butters meeting was held on November 9th 2022 where a butters were in support and all clarifying questions were answered On January 26th They presented to the SDC committee That's the Least Street neighborhood initiative um, so they presented their project plans and DS and I has provided letter of support for this project And at this time we would like to defer judgment to the board. Thank you. Thank you I have no raised hands, Madam Chair Thank you with that may I have a motion? I Madam chair my apologies. We're eight. I'm Councillor Fernandez Tanya Fernandez. Hi Uh, I am here today representing counselor Tanya Fernandez Anderson the counselor is familiar with the work of children's services of Roxbury As she's familiar with this proposal and very much support. Thank you. Thank you Okay Okay, would that may have a motion Motion for approval like right in most of the program With BPD design review BPD design May I have a second? Say Thank you, Mr. Stembridge Yes Miss Beto-Barranza Yes Mr. Shepard Yes As we will. Yes Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes Here also votes yes motion carries good luck. Thank you very much. Thank you very much Madam chair for the next case I will read this into the record and I will recuse myself And I will recuse myself as well Okay, so that's five on the just four just to tell folks the proponent that's a five-member born So you'll need all five to support the project. Thank you Okay, Mr. Stembridge. I'm chair. This is Havier as well because it is a five-member board You can offer them whether to burn out It's up to them if they want to continue or Got it So To the proponent you also have the option of an administrative deferral Uh Faring none. I'll just I'll have Mr. Stembridge read it into the record This would be case be away 138 0.0.8.7 The address being 2085 Washington Street This is also an article eight We've gone through the article 80 process Is the applicant or their representative president Yes Okay, so we have two two members who are choosing so I just make that offer again if you want to take an administrative deferral if not please proceed Thank you. My name is Intia and brogie isaza. I am the vice president of real estate and massive park development corporation I'm joined here by our partners at tree financial Thank you madam chair and members of the board for having us today I Do just want to set this up by you can go to the next slide. Thank you Um, this is part of a larger parcel 10 designation from the bpda is still a ground Oh, it's still a ground lease through the bpda and will continue to be so in the future. Thanks. You can go to the next slide Next slide, please Three Thank you Great. So here you can see the sort of larger site of parcel 10 This is something that we've been working on as Madison park for over a decade We were happy to do the renovations the new construction of tropical foods As phase one of parcel 10 and then the renovation of the start building at 2101 Washington as phase two Which also included residential and commercial space This is the last part of it phase three at 2085 Washington Where we will be providing 96 homes and our colleagues at Trinity financial will speak to the details of it. Thank you Thank you Uh, hi, Ken and big B with Trinity financial on this slide you see the proposed Final phase of development as outlined by into in that corner. We are proposing a new residential building Uh, that building will also entail maintaining the service parking that is required to service both tropical foods and 2101 Washington street parking for the newly proposed building will be one level of parking below grade Next slide, please The proposed program for this project includes 96 units of housing including both affordable rental and affordable home ownership opportunities There are 64 rental units and 32 home ownership units A project includes significant infrastructure investments including my new gateway plaza at the corner of Melnia Cass and Washington street This plaza will preserve existing trees and add new greenery To the square will also include Public art installations Outdoor seating and other amenities for the community In addition to the residential uses we are proposing and arts focused use with community art gallery and Artist workspaces Fronting on to that plaza and on to Washington street Activating the street frontage The project will also include building amenities for the residents of the proposed building including fitness center Business center and community meeting rooms In addition to the Bricks and mortar program Trinity Madison has a long history and commitment to local and diverse hiring That we will proceed and pursue aggressively on this project and then finally this is the culmination of a long and inclusive Community process next slide Here you see just a sampling of the meetings that we've been through during the planning process here Including meetings with the district seven city councilor roxburg neighborhood Council the project review committee is part of our article 80 large project review 2085 Washington street a butter meeting through the office of neighborhood services Friends of Melnia Cass Boston landmarks commission roxbury main streets and finally tropical foods Who as in Tia mentioned is a partner in the overall redevelopment of parcel 10 Starting with that first phase Next slide So turn it over to Peter Louboshane of Klein Hornig attorney for the project just to walk through The variances that we are seeking for the project Hi, all Peter Louboshane of Klein, Arnaugal LLP. I want to one arch street in Boston As you can see on this slide We are seeking pariances for the FAR the building height and the rear yard and as kind of just noted This project is Under article eight year of view so along with street wall continuity and parking are both included under that If you can move to the next slide You can see here the variances that we're seeking Uh There as a right there's a 2.0 FAR allowed and we will be including 4.5 The maximum building height is 55 feet here in order to accommodate the Additional housing units. It's 120 feet and then the rear yard It's 20 feet, but here there would be none as it would back up onto the parking lot On people move on to the next slide I believe that Our architect is available To speak as well. Yes, Peter. Thank you Madam chair members of the board my name is Fernando Dominic on principle of DHK architects in Boston You're looking here at the first floor plan of the proposed building We've designed this building as has been mentioned earlier as a gateway a new gateway into new Ian squares The first floor shows you Essentially an else shaped building that rises for five floors And then in the stream lines itself to a single Building running north itself this plan shows you The new proposed plaza the corner of Melayakassam Washington Street the trees to be preserved the new trees It shows you access to the main entrance to the To the apartment complex it shows you On the upper portion of the drawing some amenity spaces it shows you on the wing that goes out to Washington Street the The artist galleries and artist workspaces and it shows you the access to the parking below on the left hand side of the slide There's a secondary entrance to the lobbies from the the lower part of the drawing the drive from From Washington Street next slide please This shows you a typical floor plan on the Lower five levels as you can see and as I mentioned it's a nail shape building for these first five floors next, please uh at the Sixth floor we have a landscape roof deck as an additional amenity to to the project next, please And as we go up from the seventh floor on we have this kind of single string line uh Building that runs north south Along the site as Kenan mentioned from seventh floor on its kind of minimum units Up to the sixth floor it's rental units next, please And as you can see this is what we hope to to build in the shortcoming future The portion of the building that runs north south rises straight through from the lower floors glazed And inviting first floor that faces out onto Melnia Cassandan to Washington Street and into the Plaza And and then it rises up we expect that the dispute series of Cement fiber panelized building that can be seen in the elevation with a lot of glazing and a lot of Bay windows and and plenty of open views out Back into into a Boston and then the lower portion of the building we've tried to be a more sympathetic to the prevailing architecture Along Washington street so that that portion of the building is a brick building and in this gave us one a grayish brick building And again similar attitude of a very open first floor To engage with the street activity Thank you Hi, and this is just in T.I. one more time from Madison Park to Bellman Corporation I do just want to reiterate That over the past 10 years we've worked closely with the BPDA and with Chocolate foods and in the prior phase of the project the parking levels required to maintain the business operations at the site were delineated Many years ago with the BPDA through a groundless agreement and all of those parking requirements For the ground level parking that will exist are being respected And help true in this process. Thank you But just a quick question on that parking point we did receive You know letter from tropical foods Expressing you know sort of concern about the parking situation and the agreement. I mean can you speak to that? Yeah, absolutely. Yep We've been in I read listed some of the meeting dates of tropical foods. I don't think that encompasses all of them either You've definitely been in close communication with tropical foods We understand that they have concerns about the parking at their business It is going to be a reduction in the amount of parking that they currently have that is true But it is it holds true to the original commitments That were made on the project for what parking would be available at the end of the phase three of the project Which was always an envisioned component When tropical foods originally decided to partner with us on the site to bring them Full-size grocery store building at the back of the site And this is Kenan Bigby. I would just add to that we are As in Tia mentioned aware of concerns raised by tropical foods And we have addressed that by including in our development budget some proposed mitigation In terms of financial assistance as well as Design and technical aspects to the project to try to address those concerns Additionally, we are working with the BPDA To schedule a meeting between the three parties tropical foods BPDA and the Madison Trinity team To continue to identify ways to mitigate concerns The tropical foods may have here. We recognize that tropical food is a big piece of the newbie and square community They are a partner in this overall redevelopment of parcel 10 and so we do want to be good neighbors to them And are pledging to continue to work with them to address any concerns that they may have Thank you Mr. Pat are you Do you want to respond to that? I absolutely have a chance to respond to that Apologies. I have a few other issues earlier so I apologize I'm not being able to speak to this earlier I just had a couple of comments from the BPDA side So parcel 10 had gone through a robust article in the process and it did receive board approval on May 22 I am the project manager for the BPDA for 2085 Washington Street And do you want to recognize Ken and NTS comments as correct in that sense? And I also just wanted to add another piece from the point of view So the project is located within the planning boundaries of plan union square Which was a process established in 2016 and does meet in a by by plan union square as well Thank you very much Any questions from the Lord? Yes, I have a question two questions actually the first one is are you planning to have photovoltaics or solar panels in the roof? Yes, yes, partly Request for the high variance is so that we can locate photovoltaic panels on both rooms Thank you in the second questions for Antilla I I am really pleased to see that they are For the world for monetary units and rentals could you please talk about the income levels for both the commoner chip and the The parental units Yeah, I'll jump into answer that I may ask in tea of the question, but I have those statistics right in front of me Can it be again with charity financial we are partnering with Madison Park on this development So as I mentioned there are 64 rental units 16 of those are at 30% AMI Four of those are at 50% AMI 22 of those are at 60% AMI and the additional 22 are at 80% AMI For the 32 on ownership units 15 of those are at 80% AMI Another 15 or at 100% AMI and then we have two unrestricted market rate units 2 Okay, where is the plan for those two units? Just interested to see that the majority of the project is at these restricted that they are to Yeah, so the the Generation of that particular unit makes is a couple of things why we're using commonwealth builders financing In partnership with mass housing and the city of Boston and there are project limits on the amount of dollars That particular project can raise and so in utilizing those dollars we were able to write down a cost of the 30 units But didn't have a way to achieve that right down for the remaining two units So that's one answer Additionally, we do think that income mixing is important and wanted to have a market rate component. I'll be it A little bit symbolic given the overall unit mix, but we do think it's important to include Housing opportunities at all income levels, so that's how we ended up where we did mom share them with questions from from me Thank you any other questions from the board Here are none I may I take public test the morning Yes, good morning Madam chair members of the board Keisha Santana with the mayor's office of neighborhood services On this project went through the article 80 process, but they still decided to uphold enough butters meaning to notify a butters And this one was on September 27th where about our so attended show support for the project and appreciated the opportunity for affordable homeownership No no concerns were brought to our office And no general community support and at this time we would like to defer judgment to the board. Thank you Thank you Mr. Donovan from uh, where is office? Please Uh, good morning members of the board my name is Stephen Donovan. I'm a housing development officer with the mayor's office of housing Uh, on behalf of the mayor's office of housing. I would like to go on record in support of the 2085 Washington project and the engagement and work being done by the Trinity financial and Madison Park Development Corporation team And I will also note that the mayor's office of housing and community preservation committee have awarded funding to support this development of affordable and rental homeownership housing at 2085 Washington. Thank you Yes, Madam Chair my apologies. I have to raise the Randy you've been muted if you can state any minages for the record please Randy Sorry, yes, can you hear me now? Yes, we can Okay, my name is Randy Gary. I'm from tropical foods direct the butter to the 2085 project and We have submitted some some paperwork for the board stating our opposition at this point due to a few reasons And the one is parking back when we had redone our building Several years ago that we had a legal agreement with Madison Park as they were the designate for the what is now the Building B It was supposed to be only five stories high and it was going to have uh parking ratios involved with with their tenants and we feel that they do not they are not Holding to that bargain and that this building is far too large and we are very concerned about the impact of the size of this building And its parking will have upon our our business And I would also like to add I don't recall being invited to the of butter's meeting that the mayor's office had just mentioned Um, we have that several meetings with mouse on Madison and Trinity Uh, and we have voiced our opposition to them for some time now. So I just want to get it on record And and I'm here to answer any questions should there be any thank you Thank you That's all chair I see Good morning, Madam chair members of the board of mine are present in the carpenters You know on behalf of hundreds of unit carpets that want to go record support this break will not only help to alleviate The craniums of housing but also farm ownership that's greatly needed in the greater Dudley neighborhood and with us to three financial for an outstanding outreach to the community and work with the community. Thank you, ma'am Thank you I seen Ms. Wheeler I am representing city councilor tanya Fernandez Anderson and the counselor met several times with the proponents of this project The project is bringing Many benefits to the community including artist space gallery space and The most important of which is Affordable housing This is the first time that we heard of concerns by the tropical food store and We're just going and so the counselor supports the project but We hope that the the discussions between the abutters would continue through the bpda process Thank you Okay, Madam chair members of the board also city council lad Michael clarity taking the tropical foods of butter is concerned to consideration The council like the board take those into consideration and and those concerns to be heard going through the process Go ahead for going forward to the process. However, this is the point Through the due to the council is championship for the the CPA and is the portable housing the council to go on Thank you Thank you That may I have a motion? Madam chair, I would like to move forward on motion This project is providing important benefits to the local community including the artist space a plus of the bare sidewalks but especially for me the At the number of affordable homes or homeownership and rentals So with that, I would like to move forward on motion to approve I so asking the Proponent to keep working with the abolters to figure it out. I will be the best way to minus parking but my motion is to approve the project If you may have a second second Mr. Stamperidge on a pin sorry Mr. Shuffard yes Miss. We will ask mr. Valencia yes, mr. Langham yes Here also those yes motion carries good. But Okay Next we have case of the away one two or one One three one seven the address being 16 to 18 a one place is the applicant for their Our representative Good morning, madam chair members of the board A John Moran al-Kine advisory services with the mailing address of 130 beach road or means mass Madam chair. This is a project that involves the demolition of a vacant two-and-a-half-story building at 18 Warren place and the demolition of garages and outbuildings at 16 Warren place combining the two watts to have a gross square footage of 9,627 square feet The project is to erect four townhouse units with garage parking on the combined lot which is now all will be known as 16 Dash 18 a Warren place If we could stop at this slide the project Location is at the end of Warren place where it terminates at a private way known as prepper place which has a With of less than 11 square feet it runs from Warren place to Dudley at 195 deadly street What is being proposed is four units In a structure that would be three stories high with garage parking for each unit The total square footage Habibol space of three of the four units would be 1500 square feet and contain three bedrooms The smaller unit at the intersection of forever place would be 1388 square feet with two bedrooms The project would entail a roof decks and re-index for open space Each garage would contain one automobile plus bike storage If we can focus bike storage and utilities in storage of trash The aspect of the garage parking has been strongly endorsed by neighbors I if I and by the community during the community site visits and before the neighborhood association at the Dudley street neighborhood initiative If we could scroll down As I go along I would ask At this point to go through the Variance is sought which are dimensional and then I would ask aren't you run through the rest of the slides for the project We are seeking relief But we're cited by article 50 section 24 Use regulations and we respectfully Best that that section is applicable to community facilities sub districts In the project is in a residential three at four thousand District and thus does not apply We need relief from floor area ratio the code specifies eight and we are seeking 1.5 The front yard code specifies 10 but the model set back on the street Is four and our setback would be one The side yard is insufficient the side facing 14 Is three feet and the side facing the preveled place is wrong what The rearts code requirement is 30 we are requesting relief to have 22.7 Where feet I might add the motivation for the owners who are 50 plus year residents of Roxbury Is to develop these units and to turn them over to home ownership of their sons and daughter And so that they may remain within the community and have a economic vested interest in the greater Roxbury community We have filed letters of support five letters of support from immediate Abudders including 14 are in place and 195 a deadly to the rear petition Signed by 18 residents have been filed in support the urban league which is at the head of war and avenue Has signed and submitted a letter of support Noting their support for the proposed garage parking The Dudley Street neighborhood initiative has filed a Support letter with the board again noting their support of the proposed parking Bond if you could now go through the project in detail Sure, thank you John. Good morning members of the board. Bond, Worlington architect for the project Address 110A in ministry, Cambridge, Mass If we could just go back a couple of slides we'll start with the Ground floor plan right there. That was great Thanks, so uh facing Warren places at the bottom of the page here on the facing the street we have an entrance for each of the units Garage space for each of the units and then in the back of the footprint here we have a Family room for each unit and patio space exterior open space for each unit As John mentioned three of the units on the left side of the page but on the left of the building are identical With a unique building unique unit on the right side Which is slightly smaller due to the shape of the lot if we could advance the next slide Okay moving up into the building. This is the first floor plan. Here's where we have living space And a bedroom and a bath For each of the units if we could move up another slide please Okay, and then the third floor level this is where we have a bedroom for each unit and a rear balcony for the rear bedrooms which are Reavon are on sweet and then That balcony will be contributing to our open space if we can move up one more slide please And here we have a private roof deck for each unit Also contributing to open space And we have mechanical units for the building which will be screened Okay, if we can move Thank you. I will have a small we're proposing a small underground utility room with the back of the structure In the back of the lot below patio Move one more slide please Okay, and here the exterior elevations at the bottom right we have the warm place elevation We have bay bay bump outs and we see the front doors that we talked about in broad stores And then the two side elevations on the left side of the page and the rear elevation showing The rear balcony at level three and the top floor balcony And I think there's one more slide after this Just a few exterior views of the project showing that What the project will be like some traditional details and Uh The massing of the project as it comes back in the site and and use from the rear place and and Use from warm place as you come down the street on the bottom of the page here Okay, that that's the extent of I believe all this lot is thank you Uh Thank you Madam share will be open to comments and questions and was a and coral the owner would like to contribute I think we can open it up to questions if the board does the board have any Yes, could you please show again this high plan for the first floor My mom in bachelors Uh Up one more there you go Thank you. So the you need to the right with that shape is is uh Interesting and there is a living room I see that there is a tiny window, but the window is behind the door To the right seat So eight the door is open that Bedroom or that room doesn't happen in that sort of light coming in Well, we're still looking at the fenestration in the doors it's possible that It's the very back of the room that that door could be a glass door uh And it it's possible that there's a window in the stairwell as well that would provide light into the space Yeah, I was looking especially at that corner because the space is very tight and just thinking about Light and air so that could my attention Yeah, understood. Don't be there'll also be mechanical ventilation for these units Okay, and for the parking do you you have to open for Carcods carcods right? Yes They're up John do you want to speak on that point? There are existing curb cuts we would be enlarging them The during both the site meeting and during the presentation to the rocks for the Dudley Street initiative They were the community was in support of the curb cuts in the closed parking Okay, fine and the final question there. What is the ventilation system for the garage because the garage is at the same level of those uh, family rooms or living rooms so the car is on What are the other fumes going to exit the wind bin or the gases from the cars? That's a fair question. We haven't gotten into the full mechanical electrical plumbing design Uh, but we could potentially propose an ERV that we would satisfy fresh air requirements for the garage Uh, will certainly everything will be to code uh, this is A zoning set will be submitting full construction plans once the zoning is approved Okay, I might add that he rests from a garage uh into a bedroom is prohibited in the entryway is not into a bedroom But into a family room But again ventilation will be addressed Thank you. Can you confirm so right now you're proposing four different For separate curb cuts and how many are existing now They're there. What is existing? The the one existing is a curb cut for width of 60 I might add that this is at the end of warrant place Uh, and that When it joins Preval Prevert place That is a private way So in a in the sense the warrant place dead ends And your plot plan it actually shows um a smaller curb cut And on the google dot on the google earth view it shows one curb cut that is not the length of the property Then I misspoke I apologize Okay I mean one of those were mine concerns as well in terms of you're so close to a transit stop like rocks very crossing A two-minute walk You know from the property Is there a reason why you're Including one parking space for each of the townhouse units If that is the zoning requirement and it is likely that occupants would have a vehicle street parking is And then it is on the street Abutters were were actually happy that Additional street parking wouldn't be taken up by by these dwellings, but um And as John mentioned it isn't at the end of Of warrant place and Prevert place is a very narrow private way You know Jeff Jeff if you're still on from BBDA might be able to speak to this better But it sounds like he's also BPD is also suggesting uh, you know one entrance for all of the cars versus Creating for separate cook cuts Yes, thank you Madam Chair members of the board We recommended denial without prejudice just to what the board in this better baraza brought up at For curb cut since I would view we prefer one And also that's Takes away really from a pedestrian experience in front of that building So if the court board is to approve we would ask that it be one truck cut For the street parking and that there is significant design review Especially when you get up to the roof when you take a look at the screaming and offering the mechanicals Um from different vantage points almost looks like it's another floor. I know it's not But looks like you can be soft a little bit Thank you Thank you Would you be open to that in terms of Working with one curb cut, you know, it is a three F four thousand. So Although you're right that there's a one-to-one unit ratio you are increasing The density on this lot to propose for units Yes, we would be open to Design review okay, great. Thank you. I don't have other questions. Thank you Uh any other questions from the board Okay, hearing none can I have public testimony? Yes, good morning Madam Chair members of the board Kisha Tentana with the mayor's office and neighborhood services And a butter's meeting was held on November 29th 2022 where there weren't a butter's and attendance But there are support letters that were sent from residents Um the applicants met with DSNI on January 26th 2023 Where DSNI provided letter of support with the condition that the team continues to engage the community to resolve any matters that impact the community with relation to construction traffic trash cleanliness and any related matters and at this time we would like to defer adjustments to the board. Thank you Thank you I have no raised hands Would that may I have a motion? Madam chair, I would like to put forward our motion of approval with BPD a design review paying special attention to the ground floor design you ensure a A friendly pedestrian experience by only having I think this is the Pariso by only having one curb cut that is That is 10 feet and width Thank you may I have a second? Thank you Is that a second? Yes, second Thank you Mr. Stemberidge Yes Ms. Better-Barranza Yes Mr. Shepard Yes Ms. Wu-Wol I'd like to vote now. I appreciate Ms. Better-Barranza's efforts to work with the applicant, but I just have too many concerns about the vehicles backing up especially that last vehicle That would have to account for two streets when backing out, but I would rather just seem more worked on on this one, so I'm voting now Thank you Mr. Valencia Assembly and so on, sounds me as we will. I vote no Mr. Langham Yes The chair also votes yes, the motion carries Thank you Thank you Next we have the case of the OA-1-3-0 2-2-4 You address being 115-160 William T. Marseille-Tolo-Var This is also an R480 Proposal process And is the applicant or the representative? We are Sir Members of the board, my name is Paula DeVro I'm an attorney at Pierce Outwood, a 100th summer street in Boston With me is Michael Hoyle, who is the vice president for Senior Vice President for Administration, Finance and Planning I just want to let you know why we're here This is for an addition for Boston College High School on Mercy Boulevard We are We have been before you before we will last here in April last year For the signs that you can see now And for some fencing and for a new grandstand And we're back before you for an addition for Anatatorium, a swimming pool, locker room And other facilities addition We were before the Savenhill Columbia Savenhill Civic Association we had a meeting in January We had a BPDA public meeting in February And the Columbia Savenhill Civic Association voted to support us at its meeting in February And I believe you have a letter to that effect that was submitted to you BC High isn't allowed use in this district We're in the community facilities district of the Dorchester neighborhood district And this addition will not result in any dimensional violations of code The Jeep hot we've been about protection overlay district A portion of the property is within the Jeep hot along Mercy Boulevard the Jeep hot requires a conditional use permit And we will also be relocating parking spaces and we're within a restricted parking district So ISD cited us for a conditional use permit Within a restricted parking district I would like to turn this over now to Michael Hoyle We'll go through the presentation with you and answer any questions That anybody may have Thank you Paula and good morning everybody. Thank you for taking the time to see this I have a couple comments that I'm going to turn over to Paul McNeely from our architect firm Neely where are the architects on this project This project came about because we were fortunate enough to actually have A an alum who passed away and left the stipulation Of a 49 million dollar gift to build the building And that was this stipulation we had to build a building So what we're proposing to build We'll sort of Help us with a need that BCI has which is to have really adequate fitness and wellness spaces So this is a two-story 42,000 square foot building That will Be demolishing a A little one-story building that currently has our locker rooms in a weight room And in this place will wrap around McNeely's gym And build this fitness wellness facility that will have Double the size of our current weight room Also have a cardio space A space for the wrestling team to practice A nutrition kitchen Wellness classroom And then a Eight-lane 25-yard pool with a one meter and three meter diving board So this will really help the school Sort of round out athletic program So I'm going to stop there and turn it over to Public Deely who will walk you through a couple slides here and show you Um, not only the Outside of the building some floor plans, but also the landscaping plan I mean how we tend are proposing to sort of beautify that Norse side of campus, which is rather industrial right now so Paul Thank you Michael Madam chair and members of the board I'd like to begin our presentation by showing you a few exterior photographs Of the campus This is a view from the more C boulevard Side of campus at the north entry point This is the main student Pedestrian entrance to campus if they're coming from the red line subway station And entering the campus In the far left-hand side of this photograph is the McNeely's gym The McNeely's gym is where we're adding our building to the left-hand side of that Gymnasium building But the right-hand side of the image is the rest of the bci campus If we go to the next slide These are three exterior views of the McNeely's gym The top view is the west elevation of the McNeely's gym And our building will be to the hand side of that image The middle image is the north elevation of McNeely's gym in the middle to the right-hand side of that image Is the remainder of the bci campus Our building will completely envelope this side of the McNeely's gym And the bottom image To the left is the existing bci campus to the right is the east elevation of the McNeely's And again our building will envelope this side of McNeely's gym To go to the next the next side please Thank you. This is the existing campus site plan the bottom of the drawing is more stable of art To the right-hand side is being cooling boulevard To the top of the sheet is additional development and to the left-hand side of the drawing is additional development The green space is either open green space or playing fields The gray color is the existing campus architecture The white is vehicular circulation and vehicular parking At the bottom of the sheets there's the main vehicular entrance That red arrow in the middle of the sheet is the main entrance to the campus That brings you around back out to more c boulevard for the left That's also the north vehicular entrance to campus And on the left-hand side of the sheet there is the north parking area which currently has 372 existing parking spaces To the top of the sheet that red hatched area is adjacent to the McNeely's existing McNeely's gymnasium And that's a portion as Michael Horton mentioned that we're removing to construct our new building The bright green circles in the lower left-hand corner are existing trees to remain And the yellow Circles to the top of the sheet are existing trees that we're removing due to the construction If we go to the next slide please This is our proposed site plan our new building is in red That's the McNeely's gym that it's wrapping around the dotted line at the bottom of the drawing Is the theme line which is an elevation 1746 Our building of floor our first floor elevation is an elevation 23 the New parking area We're reconfiguring the existing parking area and reducing the parking count from 372 to 360 Now in the process of reducing the paved area we're adding additional green space So between adding that additional green space and a white roof on our addition We're reducing the heat island effect of the existing site by 31,000 square feet The dark green circles are new trees that we're adding we're adding 92 new trees The green arrows around the red box are entrance points to our new building And then the very top of the sheets on the east side of our Edition we have a new outdoor classroom space If we go to the next slide please These are three exterior elevations of our new building at the The top right to the right hand side of that elevation is the existing McNeely's building To the left hand side of that image is our new building. This is the Anatatorium end of our new building So this is the view if you're driving down more steep boulevard or entering the campus on the north end of campus This is the view that you would see Between this Anatatorium entrance and the existing McNeely's building is a new Entrance to the facility that we're calling the Anatatorium entrance The middle image is the north elevation of our building The right hand side is the Anatatorium end The left hand side of the image is weight room and locker rooms Now we've reduced registration on the north side due to energy concerns And then the lower image is the east elevation of our building and coasting campus to the left We have weight room and Nutrition includes the classroom on the second level of this there's locker rooms down below And in between the existing campus and our building we have a new east entrance That we're creating and this connects back to the major circulation spine through the building that connects us back out to the front of campus From a material standpoint we have a basically a brick building We have some anodized aluminum panels we have anodized aluminum storefront system We have pre-cast concrete sills And these materials match the existing material palette of the existing campus architecture If we go to the next slide please So next the next three slides are three-dimensional images of our addition the top slide Is the view looking from the west again if you're driving down more to the boulevard or entering the north side of campus This is the Anatatorium entrance view that you would see McNease is to the right The bottom drawing is again a view of the Anatatorium entrance with McNease to the right our new Anatatorium Facility to the left Next slide please These are two additional images one from the north rest one from the north to the bottom of the north east And as we begin to wrap around the building towards the north you can see how the finispration reduces We're also showing Visiting key access on this side and plus parking also occurs on this side of the building And then we come around to the North east side of the building building against open up again towards the light and the view And if we go to the final image This is now the new east facade of the building existing campus to the left Our building to the right Second level is the existing weight room on the corner is the nutrition classroom locker rooms below And then our new east entry between the two existing campus in our new building That completes our presentation Thank you very much Thank you so much Any questions from the board All right hearing none i'm going to go to public testimony I yes madam chair members of the board corner newman with the mayor's office neighborhood services at this time the mayor's office I'll switch to defer to the judgment of this board some background the community process There's not many of butters in this section of Boston's that we have the applicant reach out to the local civic association The Columbia 7 Hill civic where they presented twice receiving support from that group without we defer to this board our offices unaware of any concerns at this time. Thank you Madam chair members of the board general cabinet city council attorney bake his office. We like to borrow reckoning support Kim Madam chair members of the board Paul Sullivan city council large Michael Flarey the council went to go on record and usually have to support There are no attendees with raised hands on the chat. I see Mr. Good morning, madam chair members of the board told me and your council air and Murphy's office at this time Council Murphy would also like to go on record and support. Thank you. Thank you mr. Price You're learning my lunch here members of the board mine up for us representing the carpenter's union on behalf of Congress of Union Carpenters the living world brothers city in particularly our door system resistance one of our record and support. Thank you Thank you What's that may I have a motion Lincoln motion for approval They have a second second. Thank you mr. Stufferch. Yes Miss Betta-Barraza. Yes, Mr. Shepherd. Yes, as we will. Yes, Mr. Valencia. Yes, Mr. Lange Yes, thank you. The chair also votes. Yes motion carries Thank you. Thank you This man chair at this time I'd like to ask if there are any What the 11 o'clock hearings and the 1130 rediscussions if there are any withdrawals or deferrals Yes, sorry Sorry 92 And there's two companion cases with that Mr. Stufferch 96 walled tomorrow at 104 walled tomorrow. So you're asking for a deferral offer it correct Yes, Mrs. Stufferch This is Bear with you place so for the 11 o'clock hearing with deferral being requested for case B08 129 022 25 Yeah, just being 92 walled tomorrow have the The next along with that will be case B08 129 0226 The address being 96 walled tomorrow have And Final companion case of that be case B08 129 022 29 with the address of 104 walled tomorrow have Yes, thank you ma'am chair members the order turning Jeff Dregor would drag on to sconto with the business address of 11 Beacon Street This project has been modified there now three three unit buildings This is still being advertised. The spotting the buildings plans still have to be reviewed The new updated plans so we would request a deferral from the board Thank you. How do we are? What's the next available? Yes, ma'am chair next available. They would be June 6th of this one Mr. Dregor perfect. Thank you ma'am motion I make the most of the two deferrals June 6th Yeah, the second second Mr. Stembridge yes, it's better browser. Yes, Mr. Shepard. Yes, Ms. Wu-Wol yes, Mr. Valencia. Yes, Mr. Lennon. Yes You're also votes. Yes, motion carries. Thank you. Thank you Madam chair, Mr. Secretary 1617 tremons Oh That is the last matter on the 1130 agenda. Let's prepare it's page 10 on the agenda. That's helpful. Okay I'm sorry So in that case that would be case B.O.A. 136 1351 with the address being 1617 Thank you for that information Yes, ma'am. Yes, ma'am. Yes, ma'am. This is Secretary We just need more time in order to think of discussions with boss and landmarks commission The site is within the mission of hell trying to go architectural conservation district And to have some more time to continue neighborhood outreach So that's the reason for the second deferral I did hear Mr. Secretary or the authority of Salis mentioning June 6th If June 27 would be available. I don't want to be on the agenda too early and have to ask for another deferral That will give us that extra couple weeks. Don't really get to where we need to thank you Yes, ma'am. Yes, ma'am. Yes, ma'am. In 27 Okay, thank you. What's that? Okay. Well that may have a motion Motion to defer ma'am second Thank you, Mr. Stembridge Yes, it's better browser. Yes, Mr. Shepard. Yes Miss Weel yes, Mr. Valencia. Yes, Mr. Zangham. Yes Thank you. The chair also votes yes motion carries 14th Street It's 11 a.m. Case Over right after the wild more case. Yes, ma'am. Sure So that would be so that would be a question deferral for case B.O.A. 139 5905 with the address being 4A Yes, thank you, ma'am. Shear members of the board attorney Jeff Drega with Drega on the discount of the business address of 11 Beacon Street We weren't prepared to go forward However notified by ISD that The ponder exam by the plans exam are there a few violations that we're missing Also, this has to be re-appartized so we are seeking a short before deferral if that June six date is still available That would work out perfectly, but okay We pass the board yes, ma'am. Sure June six is so available, but I think Right with that may have a motion Make a motion to defer to June June six. Thank you ma'am. Second second Mr. Stembridge Yeah, it's better browser. Yes Mr. Shepherd. Yes Ms. We will yes, Mr. Valencia. Yes, Mr. Langham. Yes Chair also votes yes motion carries Thank you. I also have another one 295 Webster Street 1130 redistricting Second one of the 1130s madam chair, Mr. Secretary 295 Webster Ward Watt 86 if that helps you, Mr. Stembridge Um So that thanks for that mission manager that would be case B-O-A 1267825 with the address of one 295 Webster Street Thank you, madam chair, members of the board attorney Jeff Dregor with Dregor with DeScano with the business address of 11 Beacon Street This project had a few deferrals goes back to the prior board It well one was because it was a short board there were a few members on the second The there were two posh this case one was to approve a roof deck the other was for the garden level apartment The prior board proved the roof deck but asked that they defer To get more information my office was not part of the project at that time we came in late At the last hearing and asked for deferral to get our ducks in a row We did get a new site plan that was asked for for review that still has to be reviewed by ISD So we would ask for deferral and we will be prepared at the next hearing if granted Thank you How we are but something next available yes, the next available at this point will be June 27 Okay, thank you with that man of emotion Motion to defer to June 22nd 27th That's you have a second Second Mr. Stembridge Yes, miss better brazza yes, mr. Shepard yes, as we will yes Mr. Valencia yes, mr. Langen yes, Pierre also votes yes motion carries Returning to the nine I have one more deferral. Oh, yes, sir. Yes, this is For 16 Dunor Street in Roxbury on the architect the business my business address is five two three metaphors street Charlestown and We we were deferred before and The reason where we're asking he needs to call it into the record please It's all the 1130s So that would be case be away 139 5189 With again with the address being 16 done most three Thank you sir Yes, good morning Members of the board the reason why we're asking for another deferral is we had a deferral already And the reason for that first one was that we were trying to address some of the The neighbors neighbors concerns about a parking and we went back to revise or site plan and Unfortunately our survey or passed away So we're in the process of getting a new surveyor and And that's what we're asking for this so hopefully If we can ask for the June date maybe a later date in June so that we can bring a survey on more So that we can actually update the site plan Thank you Next If it works without June 27, but if they want a later date the next available will be July 11 I think the June 27 would be sufficient I can I can take that yeah, okay Will that may have a motion Motion to defer Second Mr. Stembridge Yes Miss Betta-Brasa Yes, Mr. Shepherd Yes, as we will yes Mr. Valencia Yes, Mr. Langan Yes, here also votes yes motion carries Thank you Further request where we're drawn for deferral If not then we move on to ACE B-O-A 140 5-8-0 Yeah, just being 159 to 161 calendar street Yeah, can't for the representative president Yes, I'm can't with brown I'm the owner Yes, I'm the owner 159 Got industry I'm trying to secretly from the board to Get my goods man refinish due to my health condition I'm currently live on the Attica apartment and it's difficult in getting up to and from So I'm trying to get my basic entry finish additional ambulance space Okay, does that include bedroom or just Compony rooms but living rooms etc It will yeah, it will include them, it will And group in kitchen, open kitchen space Okay, and can you confirm the the height of your basement and windows Okay, yeah, the current height is on 610 No, yeah, what's the height of the Sorry, what's the height? That's from floor to the sea. I'm seeing the basement 610 Okay And you want the height of the windows Are there windows? We're yes, yes, are there windows? Okay, yeah, two windows in the front portion Two windows are at the side Two windows at each side and a woman window in the back portion of the calendar Miss Bepera, are there questions on the plans? But you need seven feet Clear height for One to two families, so it doesn't It will be a building coalition just for the board to know Mr. Brown, can you address that? I need seven feet Yes, that's okay. Yeah, so I'm you know, um Do some yeah, that every time I'm Dig in yeah, there's some big in arm to get um to get it to seven feet and um ceiling I'm seeing an update the basement floor You're willing to look you feet down down to get it down Get it to seven feet that can be long Okay, some are under some blabla Any other questions from the board? Okay, with that may I have a public testimony? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor Newman with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services at this time in the Mayor's Office I'd like to defer to the judgment of this board. We the applicant Notify a butters the a firing Within 300 feet to not hear back responses. We then had the applicant meet with the Woodrow Avenue Board Association We're expressed they had no objection as to the proposal With how we refer to the board. Thank you. Thank you Good afternoon, Madam Chair members of the board. My name is Ayamide O'Woeha From the Office of the City Council for I'm Wrell and in regards to The 159 to 161 terms to be property Our office having received no letters of opposition or support and due to the minimal change being made our Flexible in record of support of projects Thank you There are no additional waste cans by chair. Okay. Thank you With that may I have a motion? Madam Chair, I'd like to prefer a motion of approval with a proviso that there will be no building co-release May I have a second? Second, ma'am Mr. Stembridge Yes It's better for us. Yes, Mr. Shepherd Yes You well? Yes, Mr. Vellante Yes, Mr. Langham Yes Here also votes yes motion carries. Good luck Thank you Thanks to the board Madison Next case is EOA 135 9303 The address being 17 long fell street Is the applicant for their representative president Yes, Mr. Secretary Madam Chair Attorney Nixzzouloum, the current quote the miller 28th-state street in Boston with me today is Neil Golden There's a post-Eleport from 17 long fellows street LLC In time, a carrier from Calcid design anchor is the architect I'll try and go through this presentation as quickly as I can, Madam Chair Next slide, please Madam Ambassador, perfect. So just quick project summary 17 long fellows located between top left street and draper street in the greater bone, Geneva, neighborhood area, northchester. This is a vacant lot The proposal as you can see here is to construct a new three-story three-family residential building With three-off street parking spaces at the rear Using an existing curb cut at the property All units will be larger family size units for each of the three units The total floor area you can see here is about 4,000 square feet for the street family building And that corresponds to a floor area ratio of 1.13 And the proposal is to improve and really revitalize this Underutilized site that's been taken for a long time With the new high quality and appropriately designed three-family residential building That we believe conforms to the context and character of the neighborhood Next slide, please This slide just shows a proposed conditions plan. Thank you, Madam Ambassador, for zooming in It's a little tough to see, but this is again, the only, the only, the only vacant lot on Longfellow street The lot about 3440 square feet of lot size, which is pretty typical for the lots on Longfellow This would be an infill project It's more than 16 feet off the fun lot line And that's a whole bad as you can see to be in pretty much conformity with the buildings on either side of us It's also 10 feet off of the left side where the driveway is and 5 feet off the other side of lot line And then you'll see it's about 20 feet from the rear lot line with an overhang For some living space in the second floor of your parking area And then there's a front porch in ground level open space You can see on this that there's no No proposed roof deck so well-failed at least so the project Next slide Thank you This is just an architectural site plan again showing a little bit more detail of what I just mentioned The lot size 3440 square feet The proposed building cited on the lot Including parking via driveway with free parking spaces at the rear And that curb cut again is an existing curb cut at the site today Next slide please These are just unit area plans and the gross plans showing just You know what I mentioned again before about the different unit sizes and how we got to that 4,000 square feet and if you go to the next side and that in the basket You'll see the floor plans a little bit more detail Again all these units are large family sides The first unit is actually a townhouse duplex unit on the first floor in lower level It's two beds and two baths on the first floor in the lower level It doesn't have any bedrooms it's just the family room in a home office In that lower level that's about 1700 per feet Second floor is its own unit that is a three bed two bath which is about a thousand square feet And then the top floor unit is also a three bed two bath which is 344 square feet So again larger You know two beds two bath three beds two bath Family size units all of the houses work on nice sideways This is just the elevations from each side um the height is 32 feet the maximum building height is 35 feet So we actually don't need a height variance with the building height and feet But we do need a height variance for the stories What the max in this sub district is Two and a half stories and we're at a full three stories as you can see here But we're still three feet below the max building height allows From that standpoint Next slide And just wanted to show you here on this is just an assessing map showing the uses along long fellow The reason for this madam chair is this is again a proposed three family building and we're in a one at five thousand So in some way so we do need to use variance for the three family However, this is a small one block one F The only district the sub district that actually even busses the rear of three F three thousand Sub district on bridgewood which would actually allow this use and then we just wanted to show the board In textually that there are a whole bunch of twos and breeze right along Long fellow on this side of the street Um on the other side of long fellow it is all single family homes But on this side there is a kind of Of one's most inclusive Next slide This is just a zoning chart happy to go through this in more detail if there's any questions But it outlines zoning belief that we need the project does require eight zoning variances But we would again submit if the moment you just showed that it's And actually still appropriate street A lot of the existing lots on long fellow have these same bearings is the same lot with the shoes the same lot air issues And same setback issues as well Well, we don't need this relief for height again. I mentioned that we have enough open space We don't need the front yard setback because we're particularly appropriate And we also provided the required three parking spaces at one per unit We don't need zoning for that And on this page I just want to note too that the DPA believe did recommend the approval of what desired the project Which does speak to the zone itself Next slide almost done next slide is just a zoning future letter I'm just again just highlights what I just mentioned Did showing you that will won't be recited for the ISD next slide Mountain chair. I know that the mayor's office and others will probably highlight the outreach in the project and Positioner support. I did just want to you know, I'm a visual person So I did just want to show the board that we actually have submitted support letters from every direct to butter touching out property Including the two on the side and the three of over here So I just wanted to highlight that and the last slide I believe we are all set. I also just wanted to mention Mountain chair You may hear from some folks about a deed restriction on this property This is one of those so called yard sale lots from 25 years or so ago You know when we came on board at zoning attorneys were not transactional But we were told that Before that this has been removed appropriately and we actually Discussed that with mayor's office opposing they reviewed Update D and have stated that the restriction has been properly played and no longer in effect But I know the board doesn't necessarily get involved in that, but I just wanted to end with that one So thank you very much and happy to answer in question. So you may have thank you Hey, thank you, and you did answer that question That that was up you know offered us some of the reasons for opposition. So appreciate that any other any other questions from the board In terms of just clarification. I did look at The zoning viewer on property 13 a because I was flagged as a three family It's currently under the assessors noted as a two family Um, did you just come to the three family just the way that you know, did you actually count the tenants on that property? No Miss for us I apologize what we just went to the assessing and did exactly what you did the zoning viewer and clicked on that if that was the case Why don't which property wasn't it was a 13 a I still see as a two family I haven't been able to kind of click from the vicinity of three family Okay, I just want to let you know that I'm doing I'm doing it Thank you Exactly the way you did it we put down the zoning viewer Which takes you to be assessing it. That's what it'd be assistance. Okay, give me another property that has three family along that street that it's not 13 a Um, Adam ambassador you go back to the Live and add that I think it was slide You going this side does have it if you go back down slide Okay, yep, so it's right next to you have three properties are next to 19. Okay Thank you Three 25 and then if you go down further it was 11 so I apologize if that was just Thank you Good any other questions from the board All right with that may have public testimony. Oh, yes, Madam Chair members of the board Call our newman with the mayor's office name put services at this time the mayor's office I'd like to defer to the judgment this board Some background information in the community process as the applicant's representation indicated in the butter's meaning was held There were some concerns expressed around parking with the driveway as well as tree removal from the from the land I'm also questions around whether or not this would be rental our home ownership Um, the applicant did go on to meet with the greater boat in Geneva neighborhood association Um and receive support from that civic group Uh, this time would like to defer to the judgment of the board. Thank you The other Yes, Madam Chair, I have three raised hands. Okay All right, so I have Event you've been unmuted if you can state your name and address for the record please Event Okay, go to the next Ecta if you can stay your name and address for the record please If I may and Madam Chair, I know both of them are on date. They're the property owners on both sides of us They are like they did submit letters of support if that's helpful. They were on Okay, yes, they're your name and address for the record please Hi, my name is even Matos. I'm actually representing my heart Money to Rodriguez who is actually living on 15 long fellow. She's a director butter And she doesn't speak English. So that's what I'm speaking for right now Thank you, and are you speaking to support our opposition? supporter Thank you anything you want to add to that Um, she just wants to say that the lot's been at me for a long time now And then she is this food support for the developer of what's going on with the housing Um, she's also state special love to see more More developing going around the area so to provide help for others that are looking and seeking for housing So she's in fully supported this. Thank you, ma'am All right, so we'll go to miss new end Miss Hi, miss new in you've been unmuted if you can stay your name and I just for the record please Hi, my name is Awa new and I live in the 20th long program and I The thought I think it's big was that what I think it's gonna be a more issue You know, I Thank you Uh, see, and then I have one more John Parsons you've been unmuted if you can say your name and I just for the record please Hello, yes, I'm John Parsons. I live at number seven Bonfellow Street and I'm speaking in opposition to the various Uh, I think there's been some misrepresentation to say that a triple-decker would be consistent with this street Anybody who turns onto the streets suddenly notices how different it is surrounded by 3f and 2f Zoned areas. It's zone 1f and you see it immediately um If you look behind the street behind it richwood street Is a three-empty street and it has several empty lots all suitable for this development that's being proposed All larger lots than the one-up here. I just don't understand the idea of um You can take the one street that's a one-up and leading into it properties that are more suitable in The entire district around there that is zone 3f there are many I also think it's been misrepresentation about the greater vote in Geneva neighborhood association sporting the project I believe you have on file a letter from them opposing Thank thank you. I see two other reasons Hi Yes, I'm from Ango I leave a 19 long fellistry Um, I'll be right uh bottom means empty We are no purpose who will support this project building for the housing There are three and two family house on the street the side of street Flooded support this Thank you mr. Polanco Thank you Thank you, Madam Chair My my name is Rudolph Weeks. I live at 16 long fellistry. I'm directly in front of the 17th street 17 Longfellow lot. I oppose the development and the lot variances for the front for the following reasons The lot was previously a single family longfellow's unique characteristics of 41 homes only has five trip three families The lot was purchased in 2000 through the cities the odd sale program and it's considered non-buildable because it is so close to the other lots The Lot sold during this program did have a deed restriction And then lastly all of the neighbors that attended the two butters means on august 16th and on august 25th opposed the Development I also have a letter that I forwarded from Geneva which also said they oppose Contrary to what was already stated and neither of the butters that are now here present Neither of any one of those Houses that were in the green Attended any of the butters means and I feel it's disrespectful That the people that did come out and have given their time are being ignored Thank you Francis any other eastans? No additional raise hands, won't you? Thank you With that may I have a motion I Madam chair, I'd like to put forward a motion of approval With bpda design review it is in a 1f 5,000 district but we do see Couple of properties to the right that are three family Um in terms of the in terms of the x-tier it does work with some of the Both front typology that you also see on the street Thank you Second mr. Stembridge yes Miss better brazza yes, mr. Shepard yes Miss. We will yes, mr. Valencia Is mr. Valencia? Sorry, I'm young. Yes. Thank you mr. Langham. Yes Yes Chair also votes yes motion carries Would that Can we take a 15 minute break? Please thank you. Thank you. Thank you. No chair. I think that's good You