 you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you Mr Yes. Fair votes, yes, the motion carries. Thank you, everyone. Madam Chair, at this point, we'll be going to the interpretation case that's scheduled for. Now, that was the interpretation case. Did you guys cut out that early? Madam Chair, there's actually another one. Oh, there is? Yes. Okay. The plan is to do the interpretation request and then to ask for the one-a-clock referrals or withdrawals. And then to the other case? Oh, okay. What's the other case? Sorry. And then, what would you say if one-a-clock is to be allowed? You got it. I don't know which the other case is, though. So it's the interpretation for 1 o'clock PM, BOA 160 2742, 123 125 Broad Street. Okay. So we're going to proceed with this? Yes. All right. Thank you. So with that, just to repeat, if the act is for an interpretation case, all the case scheduled for 1 o'clock PM, the case BOA 160 2742, with the address of 123 to 125 Broad Street, if the applicant and or their representative is present, they please explain the case to the board. Yes. Good afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the board, Richard Lins, with the business address of 245 Summon Street, the spot on behalf of the petitioner. As indicated, like staff, this is before the board, for interpretation of or not requesting, you know, the, but rather to determine whether or not the decision of the inspectional service, the department was correct, inciting this project for G-Cut Applicability. Very briefly, it's a pretty narrow issue, Madam Chair, but this project involves an as-of-right conversion of an existing six-story building located at 120 to 125 Broad Street in downtown. The conversion is part of, for lack of a better term, it's an office to residential conversion based upon, certainly the market and where it stands in downtown. I know converting vacant office space into residential, as a state of all the city, and an important component of creating additional housing opportunities, especially in buildings like this. With respect to the project itself, as I said, this is an as-of-right change the building. Each of the five levels above the ground will be converted to a residential use. Because of a lack of window line, windows both front and back of each unit, these are all intended to be pretty much open concept loss at each level. The infrastructure of building is pretty adaptable for the fuse, and the proposed changes really limited to a more cosmetic and very minor changes to, for example, HVAC plumbing electrical. As the board is likely aware, G-Cut is applicable anytime in the G-Cut or really district. Provided that you meet certain criteria, and one of the most crucial elements of G-Cut applicability is the level of rehabilitation. And level of rehabilitation is defined right in Article 32, as to substantially legalitate, which is defined specifically as the more than 50% of the assess value of the physical structure of buildings. You don't take the assess value of property with a structure alone. In this case, the I believe the assess value is around 4.4 million, or so, just under four of the structure itself. I provided a board for its record, all the data with respect to this. So from the assessors' record, I believe you may have engaged six or seven and just throw that. You can see that the assess value for the physical structure is about $4.4 million. That would mean the threshold is somewhere around 2.2 million for renovations. And in this particular case, our renovations do not exceed about $700,000. And as a result, it's our position that the G-Cut threshold is not exceeded, and therefore not applicable with respect to this particular proposal. We've indicated to the Inspectoral Service Department that provided the data regarding the extent of the costs for the renovations, being roughly a third of the actual threshold. However, ISD has indicated that the actual estimate for permitting purposes is based upon a commissioners' bullet-to-machines on the next page. And that commissioners' bullet-to-machines indicate that the costs of a rehabilitation for a project like this would be about $235 square foot. Our position is the commissioners' bullet-to-machines is certainly helpful guidance on determining the rightful cost of the permit. But for purposes of G-Cut interpretation, actual costs should trump anything that's in the bullet-to-machines. Especially when you consider that the bullet-to-machines takes to account things like a full-gotten rehab of a building or a physical improvement in the exterior or other substantial improvements in the infrastructure that was on the crime in this particular case. So therefore, while we acknowledge the commissioners' bonus, it is a tool to help calculate the proper cost of the permit, we do also point out that where actual costs is available, as in this case, and that ASS has been provided to the Inspectoral Services, that that controls for purposes of determining G-Cut availability. In our case, we are far below the threshold of roughly 2.2 million, and therefore, we should be exempt from the requirements and we are respectfully asked in the Board to reverse the decision of the ISD commissioner with respect to G-Cut availability and allow this product to proceed as a matter of right. I'm happy to answer any questions in the Board. Thank you, Mr. Hans. Any questions in the Board? So can you just explain again how much you're spending per unit on this renovation? Sure, it's about 125,000 of this banana. And I do have the budget. I think you can be scrolled down. The budget should be there again. There is existing infrastructure in the building currently, and that includes HVAC, electrical plumbing, et cetera. If some repositioning of the actual elements that you do have in the building, there is cosmetic, there's paint, there's some foreign-related, there's stuff that decorative change to the units, but certainly not the extent that would be applicable or would result in triggering the actual G-Cut threshold in this case. Okay. Yeah, I mean, I think I'm not inclined to reversing as a patient from ISD, I would like to recommend that we have legal counsel to provide their interpretation in order for myself to fully be able to provide a position. We also have Mark Joseph, is also on the call from ISD, if that's how cold. Yes, that would be helpful. Is Mr. Joseph on? Yes, Mark, are you? No, I don't see him. I'll see him on. He wasn't hearing Madam Chair, I'm gonna go across the hall to see if they need assistance. Oh, okay. Ma'am, is there possible for me to respond to Ms. Belraza's comment? Shh, all right. I'm sorry. I'm going to wait, yes. I respect you. I have a legal counsel review a question of interpretation. Certainly, that's one of the boards, but I will point out that this is, again, this is an otherwise as a right project that there is work that is permitted to be started under a short form, but this really is somewhat of a relatively time-sensitive matter because of the opportunity here to do the conversion and to try to complete that at a time of the matter. So I fully understand asking legal counsel, but this is a, I think a pretty kind dry interpretation of Article 32, where 50% is pretty well defined, I'm sorry, substantial will of the community, is pretty well defined in Article 32, and the amount of, or the expense here is well below that threshold. Thank you. Other questions from the board? Madam Chair, I am here with Mr. Joseph. You should be able to hear him now. Okay, Mr. Joseph, we're hearing the 123125 broad street case. If you would like to weigh in. Yes, Madam Chair, good afternoon, and thanks to board and Ms. Alainz, thank you for your intervention here. We have our application for this one here. It is a change of our keep and see, from a brewery and restaurant, Luis Alain and offices, to restaurant on lower level, and renovation to seven with no walls, finishes, kitchen bathrooms, and fire protections, fire alarms, all this. Also there is a short form permit for $6 million that was pulled on December 2023, and also there is another short form permit that is pulled for $100,000. The construction for the renovation itself costs $4.7 million. While the asset value of the structure is about like 10% less than the renovation cost. It's $4.4 million. So I think 32 clearly states is not about like what you are doing, it's for the cost of work. The app, sorry, did someone mute Mr. Gosef? Mid-sentence? No, Madam Chair, we might be experiencing residual impacts. I can go to the office now. Yes, I am back here. Okay, sorry, we've asked you. Thank you very much. Sorry, Madam Chair. The applicability of Article 32 clearly states 32.4 of 50% of the asset value of the structure, they're going to clearly work on the value of the structure that will enhance the value of the structure. Therefore our plan examiner clearly and is right by citing Article 32.4 of the zoning code because the cost of work is way more than 50%. As far as more than 100% of the asset value of the structure itself. Thank you. You just explained what we're looking at though, because here you're showing us a 16 million. Yeah, that's kind of what they're interpreting as the value. Yes, so I can wait. What's the city's assessment? Right. The city's assessed value of physical structures, 4.3 million. Therefore, just for simplicity, Article 32 threshold would be half of the physical value as of like 2024. So the cost of the regulations would have to exceed 2.1 million in order for G-Cypht to be applicable. As for the comments that Commissioner Joseph is just indicated, you know, we've supplied ISD with the actual scope of work as we do with all building permits and the costs that would go along with that scope of work. And it's clearly not 2.28 million. As to the short form that was pulled for $6 million, I believe I don't want to give the wrong name, but I believe that was adjusted by ISD. I don't think we've ever indicated $6 million in work for this property. It's just not even feasible for this scope of work. And lastly, with respect to the ground level, I believe that the indication was that's gonna be corn shell only. There's not a proposal at this time to make the renovations to the restaurant because they don't really have a user for that space. So this really deals with the five upper levels and the conversion from the office to residential. And, you know, we would much prefer to have multiple units for each of those words. And certainly that cost would be higher, but because of the orientation of the building, again, with windows only front and back, we're pretty limited on what we can do for this site. And that's why we're only proposing the residential units that we are. I can, I'd certainly say something about that, but the cost of work that your contractor just put in here on this application, is $4.7 million. But I'm comparing to two points something, but it's $4.7 million. That's what we have on record here. And the renovation will be for, to move from the first to all the way up to seven floors with not walls, each and bathrooms. It's not only MEP, mechanical, electrical and plumbing that they're going to do. They're going to do a lot of work on this building, and it's going to be so land. So I believe I've been in that. I think I heard enough in regards to seeing the two positions, to make a decision, thank you so much. All right, any other questions from the board? If not, is there a motion? Madam Chair, I would propose a motion to defer, to allow the applicant to provide clear documentation to Commissioner Joseph in terms of the value of the work that's being done on the building. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. It's Bergerazzo. Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Mr. Aiken? Yes. Mr. Canada? Yes. Mr. Chair, yes, the motion carries. We need a date, correct? Yes. Madam Chair, the date. The next date would be September 24th, Madam Chair. Mr. Collins? Where's the name? Okay, we'll see you then. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Now, we'll return through the discussions, and we'll go to the next meeting. I'm going to call deferrals in the draw, Ms. Muncher. I'll wind up. Go on. Do you call? Yes. If anyone has any more draws over the girls, what are the cases scheduled for one o'clock? On the September job at the Attorney Lynn's 9th in Eva Street, last one of the adjournments are going for 1 PM. So that would be for case BOA 1563599, the address of 9 Geneva Street. Would you go ahead and explain, Trionland? Yes. The record Richard Lynn's business address at 2.45 Summary Street, he's boss, then we have a decisionary. With respect to 9 Geneva Street, we are awaiting one update to our Boston Water and Swarth Plan for G-Bot. We do have our no harm letter, however, the modification to the plan was not back in time. We've spoken to the board as well as Iosteen Legal, regarding this as well as Brownwater Trust in Mr. Smalley. And I believe we have a date that we are holding for August 27th, if that's correct. That is correct, Monchair. August 27th. So we're requesting to cross that date. Would you give us sufficient time to finalize that update for the Boston Water and Swarth Plan? OK, thank you. May I have a motion? Motion to defer until August 27th, 2024? I have a motion. OK, Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Mr. Barbarazo? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Mr. Aikin? Yes. Mr. Conato? Yes. Chair votes, yes. Motion carries. Thank you very much for a great text. No, we're trying to be all due to the update that's done. But this one hand, right? Well, that's Jessica. So I don't know. Are there any more costs for those rituals? I'm not sure. I'm in the hands of my bad brother. Dan? But Nathalie, do you have a request for a deferral? If anyone's asking me to. Yes. Go ahead. Yes. But actually, I'm here to avoid all my sins and come into the room. So they want me to think some stuff on the job. I just thought you were referring to. Can you give us the address? Sorry. 80 pieces of course, we've met again. OK. Let Mr. Stemford read down into the letter. Madam Chair, that's what the 1130 section for the record. OK. Oh, sorry. Where was the address? It was down. 86th Historia Street. I'm finding cases. Points the end of the 1130s. It's all up. So that would be four cases. Two companion cases. Case B-O-A, 1538686. The address of 86th Historia Street. And along that way. And also with that 8-B-O-A, 1538740. Also with the address of 86th Historia Street. Would you identify yourself and please explain to the board? Wait. My name is Marklyn Franco. So I went to those, like, I mean, it's a meeting with Mr. Stemford today. So I'm going to finish some stuff on the job. I come back in September. So we've won anything to say to the baseball program. Thank you. Samantha. Madam Chair, we have either October A's, or October 29th. Bam, many preference. October 29th. OK. May I have a motion? Motion to the 4.2 October 29th. Mr. Stemford. Second. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Lawrence here? Yes. Is that a browser? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Mr. Eakin? Yes. Mr. Arar? Yes. Chair Lawrence, yes. The motion carries. See you, Madam. Thank you. We can see them. And then we have Dan. I do. I center request on you. Jenny Harris? Dan, are you looking to defon a case? It's up to what was on you, and little chair. I'm not sure. Madam Chair, could I look and move on? Yeah, let's move on. Thanks. So with that, from back to the red discussions, the number 30, we have case B-1Wake 1572056 with the address of 91 Radcliffe World. It's the applicant and or the representative his president, but it puts its plan in case of a boy. Yes, Mr. Stembridge, thank you. Good afternoon, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Attorney Derek Small, of a business address of 51 Dodgs and Road. I believe we have the architect now sub been on the line as well. And we're here today seeking relief to erect a two-family dwelling on a vacant lot. The zoning sub district here is a 2F-5,000, and our lot size is approximately 30 other square feet. The zoning violations are as follows. Lot width, requirement is 50 feet. We have 35 feet. The FAR requirement is 0.5. We are proposing 1.1. Front yard setback was a modal setback at a grand minutes 20, but the modal on that side of the street is 10 feet. Side yard setback requirement is 10. We have five on one and 11.6 on the other. That side being the side of the driveway. And the really outside back requirement is 30 feet. And we are approximately 27 feet. Madam Chair, the unit one will consist of two beds, two and a half baths, and is approximately 1,400 square feet. And unit two is two beds, two and a half baths, at approximately 1,500 square feet. The units are such that the basement is being converted into dining area, living area. And on that first floor unit, the bedrooms are will be on the first level. I'll stop there and have entertaining questions that the work may or dial either dials or eye. And then there are pictures in the file that show the two families on the street. Again, that's a two family, that's a three family across the street as well. I know there was some concern with regard to there being no two families on the street, but the neighborhood and the street consists of one, two, and three. And so those pictures were added in the file just to illustrate that this isn't sending precedent that there are other two and three families on the street. All right, thank you. Questions from the board? Okay, thought it is a usable open space violation. There is an open space violation. I apologize, Ms. Panato, the open space requirement is 1750 and we are at 890. Per here. Other questions from the board? Here's your basement floor that will to your cell in the bedroom, with the height. 76. No, no, not the height of the floor of ceiling. Oh, the cell level. To the window cell, yeah, because I don't see that you have a... I believe it's 54. I don't know, now are you on? Can you verify that? Yeah, I think that would not be my code. You need it, you need 44. So that's okay, I'll just make sure that you're not violated. You don't violate building code. Yes, we can, we can have a license for that. Okay. Any other questions from the board? Can I have a public testimony? Madam Chair, especially Graham, with the mayor's office of neighborhood services, OMS hosted an about his meeting for the applicant on September 18th of 2023. They met with the Rosebury Vescandale Road neighborhood association in October of 2023 with my predecessor. At this meeting, there were concerns regarding the change from one family, the current one family to a two family structure, concerns with more cars and parking concerns. The applicant mentioned that there would be enough parking created for the cars on the property and the back of the property. The city was not fully confident in that response and voted to oppose. At this time, our office would like to defer to the Chairman's judgment. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. You looking at testimony, Rick? You're hearing no one else. I have no additional raise hands. Madam Chair, may I respond to that? We are providing two parking spaces in the rear of the property at this time. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? May I have a motion? Have you no? I'm sorry. Are you trying to speak Rick on this case? Hello. Are you trying to speak on this case, Rick? Madam Chair, I'd like to put forward a motion of approval with a proviso that there be no building code remains granted. Is there a second? Okay. Okay, Mr. Stumberidge. Mr. Stumberidge. You're on mute. Okay. I'm going to give this to another power outage. Oh, no. Yep, power is out again. Sorry, Mr. Stumberidge. Looks like we will need another break. We'll call it a 15 minutes for now and let's see what happens. Oh, I think that's it. Sorry about that, Mr. Stumberidge. Sorry. He sticks out. We'll be back. You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You Six Polize Esen pits Patient Friends I have a motion. Madam Chair, I'd like to go for a motion of approval with a proposal that there be no building overly granted. Thank you, may I have a second? Second. Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yeah. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Bervaza. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Eiken. Yes. Mr. Benado. Yes. Okay. The chair votes. Yes. The motion carries. Thank you, Madam Chair. Madam, the board. Have a good day. Good luck with the issues. I know. Thank you for everyone's patience. Again, there's been power outages in this area that has been affecting ISD. So sorry about that. Things proceed. With that, we'll move on to the next statement. Good luck finding. We have the board. We have. For the best of our page. We have three companion cases. Case B.O.A. 1601598. With the address of 142. Here is the address of 142. Here is the. Along with that, we have case B.O.A. 160155 with the address of 154. Here is the. Then we have case B.O.A. 160154 with the address of 56. And we have two. We have the. We have the. We have the. I have the. Well, anyway, streets. These are all. Projects. In conjunction with the mayor's office of housing. If the applicant. And will the representative president. Would they please request the cases to the board? this presentation is Aceron's first presentation. So we just wanted to introduce ourselves a little more formally. So just to slide down to the agenda, we have a few slides before we get into the details of our project. So for a slide we'd like to discuss about the team itself, the members of our team, maybe just a few moments, discuss about Aceron's programming overall, and then we can get into the nitty-gritty and discuss the presentation. So if you could slide over to the next slide. So the development team we have is myself, Ken and Yasin, we have our CEO and founder, Bob DeFouche. We also have one of our project coordinators, Rob DeFouche, who's here in attendance, and then we also have Sede, which is our director of development. That's the Aceron team itself. And then from our design side, we have Andres Bernal, from JGE. These are our design principle, and then you also have their design and term, Joseph Sol. And then we have Matt Hanzi, who is our consultant, as well as the project manager for our presentation. And so as our project overall, and then we have Joseph Lieber, from Clien Hornig, and their representative, Tiki's here, president of Peter Luberchen. We can skip over to the next slide. So just a little bit about Aceron itself. Aceron happens to be a nonprofit CDC. We know what makes our organization so great is that we offer an array of different services to the community. Overall, a few things to discuss in particular that I like to highlight is our small business development. We do offer a micro-loan lending program that provides small technical assistance to up-and-coming potential business owners that could guide our community members in the areas of Boston. We also have a great and beautiful youth program that I came up through myself. It's called Youth in Charge. We just recently in 2023 took management of a ship. We took management of a shelter out in Cambridge. And then we also have the health equity department that was a response to COVID-19, and that virus that went around. And then last but not least, we just began our affordable housing department, which I became the director of, and this is our first project overall. So it's a great way of us to connect that full wrap around service that I discussed initially, and Aceron's vision of trying to bring so many different avenues to each household in the city of Boston. I'd like to pass it over to my colleague Matt, who will break down the actual project itself. And he'll start off by talking about the household size. So you can skip it. You have a keynote slide. Yep, thank you, Canaan. And good afternoon. Madam Chair, members of the board. I know you've kind of long day, so we'll try to keep it moving here. Carry Unit makes basically, this is nine units on three sites. Nice mix of ones, twos, and threes. Again, it's Canaan Referred to, and it was noted by Mr. Stendridge. Sorry for getting the name, but this is a mayor's office of housing supported and funded project. Members of the board may be familiar with the specific program and welcome home Boston. Canaan might have mentioned that, but so the land and funding is coming from MOH, and we're seeking other public funding from mass housing. And we have a great team as noted, and I'm ready to roll on this. But nine units and three buildings at the corner of one way. And Erie, and there is five parking spaces. That does not meet a, that's obviously a violation in terms of ratio, but feeling that it's the right mix. It will move from there to the next slide for ability. Again, this is all, this is fully affordable, fully restricted, five units, eight percent AMI, or a unit, so 100 percent AMI. You can see the sale price is there. That's about the public information. Flexible that comes from the program from MOH. And then finally, we have purchase prices on the next slide. Thank you. And you can see for yourselves an interest of time, I won't read off the numbers, but these prices are waive-along market. And there's a super high demand across the board for our project and all of the welcome home Boston projects. So we're very excited to be part of that moving forward. Okay, without further ado, starting with the next slide, we're going to pass our baton over to our primary architect, designer, on Grace Bernal, of John and Garland Enterprises. And Grace, you're on, please. Thanks, Matt. Madam Chair and members of the board, next slide, please. Just going to start with the zoning chart here. We are located in the Greater Madapen, in the three of 5,000. We were excited for eight violations. Maybe I'm not sure if I need to go into all of them, but they're described right here. There's also just folks now that there are two columns in here, and mostly because we submitted a set and then working with the mayor's office of housing, there was a development, a little bit of a change, which made us update our drawing, so that's why there are sort of two different columns and there was some slight changes, but the overall message is that we stayed within the same sort of relief, or our request stayed the same, or was minimized in terms of setbacks and so forth. Next slide, please. So let me just try to explain the project as quickly as I can. This is the first log. There are two logs. This is the log that is at the corner of Erie and Kleinway. Kleinway is going left to right on the page, and Erie's up and down to the left. This log would have two buildings. The one to the right is a three unit building, essentially, so there would be three units that have three units, three bedrooms each, and the building on the left would be essentially a stack of one bedrooms. So for this log, we're looking at six units altogether. First floor units would be fully accessible, and then we're looking also at having four parking spaces for these six units. Out of those four parking spaces, of course, you also have one fully accessible parking space and a direct accessible route to the entry. Both buildings are, I would call, the single-egres building, so there is one egress, but there would be fully sprinkled sprinkler, and the walls would be fire rated. Another item to note is that the trees that you see along Erie Street and Glenway, those are actually existing trees, and that has been sort of an important piece of this project from the beginning. So a lot of what happened with the placement of the buildings was related to maximizing the ability to keep trees, as well as making sure that we provided as much parking as we could for this six units of home ownership. Next slide, please. So very quickly, just trying to show the elevation. This would be the buildings would look like from Glenway. So the right is the three bedroom stack, and to the left is the one bedroom stack. They are trying to work with the vernacular, and they would sort of have pitch roofs, lap-siding, and sort of feel like a two-and-a-half-story, although there will be three-stories. Next slide. And this would be the elevation from the Erie side, so that this would be the one bedroom stack that would be facing Erie. So one street address would be on Erie, the other street address would be on Glenway. All right. Next slide, please. And this is a rendered view of how both buildings would look from Glenway. So now I'm going to move to the other side, which is primarily, it's only facing Erie street, and is essentially, we have just about 40 feet away from this side. We don't mind going to the next slide, please. Now, let's see. Similar to the Glenway site here, we are in the greater Matapan 3F 5000. In this case, we are, it's one site, one site where we're proposing to place one building, essentially a three-family triple decker, maybe we'll. Very similar to columns in here, because we had a resubmission based on some feedback that we received from the mayor's office of housing. And we have one, two, three, four, five, six, a site of violations from ISD. Next slide, please. This is the site plan Erie street going up and down on the page to the left. The other site, the Glenway site, would be essentially page to the bottom of this page. And about 40 feet away, as I mentioned. In this case, we have two bedroom units that would be stacked, three of them. Again, first floor would be fully accessible with one Egress there. In this case, we're providing only one parking space. Next slide, please. And this is the elevation looking from Erie street. Again, this is working mostly with the vernacular of the neighborhood. It's feeling like a three-family unit building. And one thing that I've failed to mention before too, if you can go to the next slide, some trinomove quickly through this, is that of course there would be, these buildings would be up to the current code, and would be following the most stringent sort of energy performance standards that are very related to closely related to passive house. And I am going to pass it on to, I think, its Octane. Correct. I think we could go on to the next slide, please. Yes, so we have selected our construction team. We've selected ERIS builders. They are well-versed and well-experienced in the neighborhood of Boston, especially in the door-tested area. They have some similar projects in the area on troll and where projects as well. And they also have a project I didn't mention here, but it's on Magnolia street that are pretty similar to our project itself. So they are very experienced. And they are a naughty-based business. So it would be great to have them as our construction team. So, moving on to the last slide, just for the sake of time. Yeah, so just just talking a little bit about our vision as a whole base it on. I know we are pressed for time, so I think we could wrap it up here. I just wanted to say that we are glad to be here in attendance with you guys today. Hope this is the first of our many more potential developments, and we are honored to be here presenting in front of the CBA. Thank you Madam Chair. And I'm Chair by me. Just to start, we do have strong support from the primary civic group in the neighborhood. It's the Erie Ellington-Berickley neighborhood partnership, and we have submitted a letter of support to the board. Thank you. Questions from the board? Yes. Do you have any priorities or first-time home buyers or first-generation home buyers, based on the community that has the same themselves? Sorry, I didn't hear you. Yes, sorry. Do you have any priorities for first-time home buyers or first-generation home buyers? So for this particular project, it is part of the Welcome Home project, and I think that the selection of the home owners, potential home owners, will go through a lottery process itself, so Aeson is not in any control of ones that are becoming the owners of the home. But us as an organization, we do have a first-time home buyer program, as well too. We do provide technical assistance in terms of getting people those opportunities to have the knowledge as well as the skill set to potentially purchase the home loans, so that's what we can offer. But in terms of this particular project itself, it is out of our hands. And I will add Mr. Valencia, it certainly is first-time home buyer, typical MOH, you know, city of Boston residency preference. I believe it's 70% weighted preference in the lottery system. I do know what you're referring to with the designation of first-generation home buyer. I have noticed that on other projects like Stone, the Broccoli, and Jamaica Plain, for example. And we will follow up and ask the MOH team. As K-NON said, it's there in the driver's seat on all buyer selection, but we'll certainly raise that. It seems like to me that the first-generation designation is a good idea. Thank you. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Yeah, I didn't see a submitted survey but for 56 plenwing, but we probably have it in there. It is in there. Yes, it is in there. I know and we're happy to send it. It's for somebody sending it. It's, you know, to get it made. I saw in the other drawings, but just wanted to make note of that. Okay. Yeah, they are submitted to ISD for short. We just neglected the credit and the presentation. Thank you. Okay. Any other questions from the board? May I have public testimony? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor Newman with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This time I'd like to defer to the board as you heard from the proponent. They went through a Mayor's Office of Housing, Lead Community Process and involved public meetings as well as meeting with the local civic group. The Eerie, Ellington and Bringsley Pirentship Neighborhood Association was supportive of this proposal without deferred to the board this time. Thank you. Good afternoon, members of the board, Madam Chair. I'm Dele Becket from Councillor Viowar's Office to support City Councilor and for 142 Eerie Street. Having support from Eerie Ellington Civic with no letters of opposition, the Councillor would like to go on record and support of this project. Thank you. Thank you, Antonio. Many of our staff is housing. That's good afternoon, Madam Chair and members of the board. My name is Antonio Lach. I am a senior housing development officer within the Mayor's Office of Housing. This project involves the disposition of City Owned and Land associated with the Welcome Home Bossing Program, which is an initiative to develop a affordable homeownership in the City of Boston. M.O.H. has been working with ACIDONE since the tentative designation for these sites and the project has gone through, as mentioned, an extensive community process. And as a result, has the full support of the Mayor's Office of Housing. Thank you. Okay. Would that Mayor have motion? Can we just hear from Bob Domingo, I see a note in the chat that he sees sort of an instance of Frontyard Parking on one of the renderings? Oh, sorry, Mr. Domingo. Mr. Domingo, can we go? Madam Chair and members of the board, Bob Domingo, be today. One of the drawings shows Frontyard Parking. And I know you've proved the four spaces that were in the back. I don't know where the Frontyard Parking comes from, but if it is requested, I would like to one more again in opposition to that Frontyard Space. Thank you. Would the applicant like to respond? Can I respond to that? Yes, please. One of the rents, so there are two sites in the Glenway side, the Parking in the back. So we're looking at Ron Kirkcott. So if the rendering is showing that... I think he's referring to 142 Erie Street. Just to give some reference to what drawing he's referring to. Oh, I see. Yeah, 142 Erie Street, the one that I... Yeah, the one that I have. If you can just comment on whether that's your intention to put Parking as a Frontyard, which would be a zone of violation, or is your intention to go back? No, it is our intention to have the Parking in the Frontyard on the side of... Yeah, it's within the property and it's to the side of the building, but it would be, I guess, partly in the Frontyard. Okay. I'm going to have partly driven by accessibility requirements, who will need to have an MAAP group to unit there on the first floor, which would lead one to say, well, a van accessible spot would be important there. I will say at 10,000 feet, you know, we're sort of the make-up we do intend to make a formal presentation of BTD. We've been preparing to do that in in a collaborative in concurrence with submitting to public works and the Parallel from the AUC. So we we're preparing to do that. Apologies, we hadn't reached out to you yet for your consultation, but yeah, at the moment this, this is our preferred approach. Thank you. What's your side your... What's your side your dimension on the opposite side? Not where the work that is. On the opposite side? Yeah. Let me see, you know, on second. I'm trying to pull it up, I don't see the dimension. Yeah, I'm trying to go to the... Oh, the survey... The four lines. Yeah, the survey has six foot seven. Six foot seven. Yeah, so... So if you were to potentially reduce that to five feet, are you you're ready requesting a side guard set back relief, my understanding, correct? That's correct. Yeah, so if you were to shrink it to five feet, you would gain more space on the other side where you have it seven foot one at the most pinch point. And you can avoid the front-year parking. Is that right? Bob Domingo? I'm sure they... Yeah, that is correct. Correct. I think it'll be fairable. So that's something that I can put forward as a proviso. Jeff? Yeah, thank you, Mr. Dada Baraza. I'd like to suggest that if the board were to improve this, that it goes to the BPD, uh, planning department review as well. We've had discussions with them all the way, and should usually we don't like to get involved with the MOH process, but they've asked us to actually take a look here to work design review on their projects. Okay. So if board sees fit to improve this, we can work with your concerns through the design review process. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Here, none may have a motion. Man and chair, I'd like to put forward motion of approval for all projects that has been read. But I do want to put a proviso for, uh, 1, 4, 2, eerie street 2, not have front-year parking and to undergo a design review with BT, Boston Planning Department. And as Jeffery is recommending, is there a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge? Yeah. Mr. Volansier? Yeah, this is a good project. I think the parking configuration can be improved in I-Boat Yes. Mr. Baraza? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Mr. Haken? Yes. Mr. Canado? Yes. Mr. Lutz? Mr. Lutz? Mr. Lutz? Yes. Motion carries. Thank you. Also moving forward, I'd like to ask applicants to try to keep your presentations as brief as possible because then the event, um, 10-10, that's, uh, the power goes out again. We're forced to evacuate the building. So just, if you can, please give it brief. Thank you. Thank you, Dr. Stembridge. We move on to case V-O-A-153-5953 with the address of 42 new markets square. Is the applicant end or there with this is the candidate's case? And is the applicant end or their representative is present with their playbook? Yes, good afternoon. My name has been Odepine and I'm co-owner of MJ's home. LLC is working out for you to markets where we are 100% minority owned and social equity participant. We have support from the community, city, counselor and surrounding business. The premise is restricted to authorize and boy with no customer access to the facility. Only employees allow authorizing employees allowed to the premise. A violation was on on site parking that specified in drawing. We submitted the right drawing with survey marking parking location. IST has accepted our right drawing and we are looking forward, we're looking forward to move forward. Justice project is now over two years old. Thank you. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Eric Nunn, can I have public testimony? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor Newman with the Mayor and softson neighborhood services. This time the mayor is also deferred to the judgment of this board. Some background information in the community process. Oh, and I hosted a public meeting regarding this proposal. There were no concerns raised. They went on to connect with the new market business association which is acting this area and secured their support. I believe I'll run aware of any concerns at this time and with that I would like to defer to the board. Thank you. Madam Chair, we have no raised hands at the moment. Okay. Will that man have a motion? No. Now make a motion to approve. Yes, it's approval. Is there a second? Welcome. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Is there a second? Yes. Is there a second? Yes. Is there a second? Yes. Is there a second? Yes. Mr. Collins. Are you on mute, Mr. Collins? I am. Yes, I approve. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Is Panado. Yes. Chair, let's yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. The man with the date. Next we have case, the way. The court. The court. I have a case. I have a case. One. Five. Seven. Six. Six. Two. With the address of 14 Claremont Park, the applicant and what they represent as present. They please. Go ahead. Hi. Can you raise your hand if you're on the list proposal? I think he raised the Holland companies. Yes, that's right. Okay, you're good. Yes, I'm, when it was Justin. You speak up. I think you're probably in a room with a lot of articles. This is not a whole company. This is a proposal to construct a roof deck. If you go to page 8.02, that will show the roof. I think it's like page 5. Just keep going down. So it's a proposal to construct a roof deck on top of the building. It is simply that there's a violation for the building code which requires a full door headhouse. For the roof deck, however, the South End will give it that. So to get around that, we install our typical hash to access the roof deck. That's all that we're calling for. This proposal is to install the roof deck and the roof patch. And this is something that happened. This is a typical violation on almost any project in South End for roof deck itself. Thank you. So I may be missing something. We've gotten a lot of comments from director butters commenting on a decrease in light and increasing shadows. Airflow, bump outs. Can you just clarify, is this an existing roof deck? It's the only thing you're doing. The hatch versus the headhouse or is there other work that we're missing? There is a permit for there's a building permit that we've been busy food for the construction and renovation of the building, the single fabric building. So we have the permit. We've gone to a store, but we have the approval. The only violation that we currently have, which is the last one remaining, which is for this roof deck. Thank you. Yes, it's a building code violation in regards to the amount of egress. Thank you. Other questions or comments from the board? Eric Nunn, can I have public testimony? Hello Madam Chair. This is Chris Brin from the office of neighborhood services. I would just like to state that the African has completed their community process. They have attended two of butters meetings, one in March and one is recently as last night hosted by our office. The first of which was likely attended, the second of which was heavily attended. They also attended the Claremont neighborhood association meeting back in April. And they also have met as they stated with the Lamar's commission twice, but it should be noted in this has come up in most recent butters meeting that the butters are contending that the adjacent Claremont street is miscorrectly identified in a city streetbook as private when it should be considered state owned slash public. And if so, it would give the SELDC purview over changes to the rare roof deck. I'll see me the rare roof cornice that it currently does not have. That's just something that the butters I'll currently believe. For aspects within Lamar's discretion and purview, the SELDC did make approvals for the deck in the front facade windows window well that in April second public hearing. Also in this latest about meeting, I just want to state that there was significant on what our opposition for the project and its current design with neighbors concerned about potential to crease and property value as a result of the new rare extension blocking sunlight. Also our office heard requests for a shadow study and a 3D model to be made that helps the residents better understand the impacts of the buildup that's heard that was heard from residents and elected officials. But with that our office to first the judgment of the board. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair May I speak. Are you speaking or are you in a better. I am Mr. Holland Johan the unowned on construction. Okay, so we're in public comment right now. So let's go through that and then the applicant. You'll have another you have an opportunity to respond. Mr. Seminelli. Yes, Madam Chair. I'm just a word of afternoon. Christian Seminelli boss of our trust. We have both a key con this from the applicant. Thank you. Are you running through the risk and Jessica. District seven. Hello. My name is Angie. I am the director of operations and projects for Councillor Anderson's office as a district. I'm not this. Our office has been working closely with the butter center standard concerns regarding 14 karama park. I understand that today's vote specifically deals with the roof hatch, but our office skills. It is important to raise the concern over the community process thus far. Yesterday's the butter's meeting was the second to be held after the initial meeting. So for attendance with many residents being caught off guard by its happening. Fewer than five people attended the initial meeting. During the second of our meeting residents asked for renderings of the impact. The rear extension would have but there were but was not able to view one before today's meeting. There has been inconsistent communication with residents regarding construction times and etiquette with construction equipment being left in a way that poor security risk to tend to some upper floors. When we acknowledge the neighborhood's biggest pain point, the rear extension is as of right given the overwhelming opposition to this development. Our office would like to go on record in opposition. Thank you so much. Thank you. Are there other raised hands? Jane Spenningan. Can we keep going? Yeah, we can keep going. Stewart, world. Do we need to unmute these folks or can they unmute themselves? That's what we're looking at right now. Is Jessica online? Don't see her back on. I was having some connectivity issues yet but I'm back. I can get these folks unmuted on second. Please use the one I'm looking at. I'm going to go to James from North East. Center request. I'm you. James. You're unmuted. Okay. Can you hear me now? Yes. Thank you for the opportunity to offer testimony and I appreciate how long everybody's day is going. So I'm going to James Benningan. I'm going to direct the butter at 16 Claremont Park and I know that there's been an overwhelming amount of written testimony submitted. So to be respectful of people's time, I'd like to summarize some of the issues of opposition but but request that the committee review the full written testimony before we go. So I'm going to direct the testimony before sort of rendering any any sort of decision. I strongly support the denial or the four deferral decision requested by the city councilor. Tanya Fernandez Anderson, state representative John Miranda, what believe is on the call. I'm a member of the association and others and rationales. There are really some significant zoning variants landmarks legal due process and property impact and a butter's rights issues associated here. And I'm not sure we have time to review them all but in the limited time. Let me just hit on a few and then offer my time to others. There was at the butter's meeting last night from six to seven thirty which was the first time so many neighbors really knew what was going on. Tremendous attendance roughly three dozen neighbors, the neighborhood association was there representatives from the councilor in state reps office and the state rep was there. And a hundred percent opposition from neighbors on three affected streets, Claremont Park, Wellington and the portion of Columbus Ave that faces into the shared alley. You may not have had an opportunity to review all those letters because I think people need more time to digest what's going on and submit public opinion. So you may have just been receiving some of those letters late last night and this morning. This case struck me as remarkably similar to an earlier case you were reviewing in East Boston. The primary objection is regarding this proposed four story full extension that would introduce real words into the alley seven foot deep and four story high brick walls that would obstruct few obstruct light impact quality of direct the butter's but but non direct of butter's neighbors up and down. Would affect property value rental value I've already taken a hit on I teach so in the summer I ran out my my unit but I haven't been able to rent it out so so it's affecting sort of a lot of our rights and values as as owners. The issues that I think other people summarize are the impact on property value light, obstructed view and so on the impact on the historic landmark of the south end which which as was noted in the east of south Boston. This is going to last for a hundred years or so the sort of hardships to the owners and the neighbors and no real apparent hardships to the builder and the owner they represent and some easy alternatives that I could easily speak to something was mentioned in a prior case and in this case about granted that that case and this case have as of right to redistribute basically grow square footage that was a vertical horizontal two feet. The horizontal two story low extension to a vertical full height addition and and rights are rights that's that's that's right but it's important that to recognize as a right is not well understood in that of butters have rights also and many of butters rights are at issue here and like all rights right to speak right to bear on so on. I just want to make sure we have time for others so can you please get I'm sorry I'll wrap up but the point I'm trying to make here is that all rights exist as long as they go in fringe on the rights of others and this plan in fringes in the many ways summarized in the many letters on the rights of direct and indirect of butters including the only way to accomplish maintaining say there are means of egress. So I do want to respect people's time and I thank you for this opportunity to summarize the issues Madam Chair and I I deferred others to continue the litany of objections thank you. I want to just remind people speaking on behalf of against this project it's just for the roof deck so if you have any questions concerns or comments regarding the roof deck please raise your hand thank you. I apologize for that the point is allowance of the roof deck allows for the build out which impacts our rights so it's transitive here. Thank you. So are you doing. Do you want you to be allowed to speak. This is Stuart rural and I heard yes. Thank you. I'm Stuart rural and a column at 12 point out which is an about property and thanks much for hearing me out. I want to thank you guys have a time to listen to and we are one of many is very important to me. With regard to the matter of the roof deck being what is before you I want to echo what what Jim has just said quickly and then I want to give a specific example. The roof deck is on high meeting concern and I understand as a right issue as Jim just stated what I want to echo of that is that we as a better properties we have our property rights and the builders right cannot be allowed to and friend our property rights to right space and air. The other part I want to echo is that three dozen people attended the meeting last night and this was a meeting because of first meeting was don't notice and sparsely attended with just one or two and with our action against this 36 people came out all of whom are in opposition to the rear expansion. It's a serious matter and if I may I'll give a specific point about that with how I see this as an infringement on my property rights. My property which is the second level one level above the ground in the rear would be overshadowed and blocked in by the proposed seven foot rear extension. For outside enjoyment enjoyment I only have a small deck it's 10 by 8 feet the building wants to roll that space in entirely on one side now for the more unnecessary accompanying fire escape wrapped around the extension would jut out several feet at head level over my deck. So given these concerns I respectfully urge the board to pause on the proposal stop the work for now as stated representatives Iran also counts of women and for them as have respectfully requested a better demonstration a model which clearly shows their plans we can fully understand this impact and until we get the clarity on that I request a pause. Thank you. Do we do I say representative on? Yeah. Representative Moran. You should be able to speak. He's been a million so. Okay. Can we keep going Jonathan Rivers. Hey good afternoon. I totally agree with everything James said. I mean I'm in one right 16 climate park unit 3V over the deck right Jason to the construction. There's been an unapproved backstance and use of that deck work they've dropped bricks from the top floor onto the deck which could have killed my sub letter or her pet they've taken out our emergency access for week or you could have fallen off the deck for you know a story to your death right so why should they be trusted to build something up higher. If you can't manage the you know destruction removal bricks right so there's damage in my deck pictures of this and you know there's been author under authorized use of my property as well right we have rights being in a butter but you know this isn't even reasonable. So that's all I'd like to add for you know the time being but you're totally agree with the other comments that can be. Thank you. So you know additional race is it. Is representative Moran still trying to speak. Okay. So we'll circle back to the applicant. Obviously for a lot of comments so just like to. Actually I'm sorry Jessica I see more raised hands I see represent center Collins office and some other people can you double check. I believe my proposal trying to speak my true. I have asked him several times. Yeah we're trying to. Senator senator Collins are you trying to speak your office. I think you need to unmute yourself. Hi can you hear me. Yes. Hi my name is Riley Nichols from Senator Collins office. I'm the senator would like to go on the record and opposition to this project and ask for it to be rejected or pause until further discussion. Thank you guys. We have to Casey. So P and raised by the name of Casey. Hi there I'm Casey I just wanted to speak on behalf of some of the renters I couldn't make it that are directly abouting 14th Hermont Park. I think a lot of people spoke at the butter meeting last night about property values being affected by those seven foot expansion. But I just want to give my perspective as a renter. The seven foot expansion is highly invasive to my back deck. As Jonathan had mentioned that they are using our property to complete this build. They haven't even started building the brick wall that will expand the perimeter of my deck yet. But it's already been highly invasive for the rent that I do pay to live in this beautiful apartment with the amenity that is the back deck. You know it has us renters considering can we stay here with the proposed work. We haven't seen the 3d model. We haven't really heard about the scope of work that's required to build this wall. We feel very in the dark and you know I love my home. I wouldn't have resigned my waste twice if I didn't feel that this was my home. But this is extremely invasive. It will impact my entire living space out there for you know maybe a year. I use my deck three seasons out of the year and to have it be unusable whether because of the danger that Jonathan mentioned or the invasive access to my property. You know, a single woman living alone. It's a safety concern for me all around. I understand this meeting is about the roof deck but we've all written in specifically about this expansion and kind of the secrecy over what's being done. I just wanted to represent other renters when I say that we strongly oppose this. It has already been invasive and we're only in the early stages. I hope that will be considered. Thank you. I'm more concerned. You're welcome. I'm just wondering if you just gave me permission. This is a little bit harder to be your own very first appearance. This is a little bit harder because his aid. He just wants me to be his lead. So it's nice to work. I'm really looking for you. We don't know if you're walking while you're talking but we. I'm sure they put their comments in the chat. That's exactly what I was going to ask. I was going to suggest if if I wrote my hands that he would like to type in their comment. I think that's what I'm going to ask. I think that's what I'm going to ask. I think that's what I'm going to ask. I think that's what I'm going to ask. I think that's what I'm going to ask. I think that's what I'm going to ask. I think that's what I'm going to ask. I think that's what I'm going to ask. I think that's what I'm going to ask. I think that's what I'm going to ask. I think that's what I'm going to ask. I think that's what I'm going to ask. I think that's what I'm going to ask. I think that's what I'm going to ask. I think that's what I'm going to ask. I think that's what I'm going to ask. I think that's what I'm going to ask. I think that's what I'm going to ask. I think that's what I'm going to ask. I think that's what I'm going to ask. I think that's what I'm going to ask. I think that's what I'm going to ask. I think that's what I'm going to ask. I think that's what I'm going to ask. I think that's what I'm going to ask. I think that's what I'm going to ask. I think that's what I'm going to ask. I think that's what I'm going to ask. I think that's what I'm going to ask. I think that's what I'm going to ask. I think that's what I'm going to ask. I think that's what I'm going to ask. I think that's what I'm going to ask. I think that's what I'm going to ask. I think that's what I'm going to ask. I think that's what I'm going to ask. I think that's what I'm going to ask. I think that's what I'm going to ask. I think that's what I'm going to ask. I think that's what I'm going to ask. I think that's what I'm going to ask. I think that's what I'm going to ask. So that is the only thing we're here to discuss today is the access to the roof deck and not the as-of-grade addition on the rear of this property. I understand that some owners object to it and follow them with zoning rules. So a rejection today means nothing for the addition. It just holds me up on a roof deck. I don't know how the board is going to represent our rejection for something like that when precedence has been set on my projects alone, up to 25 times. I will continue to work with the neighborhood, but I also have people. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Hearing none, is there a motion? Madam Chair, I'm going to vote. What is in front of me, which is a relief for a building code violation for roof access in regards to egress above fourth story? I find this project to be of low occupancy and therefore I'm going to approve a motion. The motion is to approve their relief for the building code violation. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Mr. Beter-Borolso? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Mr. Aiken? Yes, and I feel the need to reiterate that what we are voting on, what is in front of us, which is a single building code violation? What is yes? Mr. Poonado? Yes, and I read our AC plenty of evidence of roof decks on this block. Chair votes, yes, the motion carries. Madam Chair, that does include G-Card as well, that motion, right? It does not include G-Card. And I need a second motion. She's not mistaken. Oh. She's not mistaken. Is that correct? The applicant was it approved previously? Yes, it was a real agreed. Okay. All right. All right. Thank you. Thank you. Now we move on to the hearings scheduled for 1 p.m., we start off with case B away. The case is on 61534, with the address of 96 standards. It's the applicant and the other representative is present with their explain the case to the board. Victoria, you want? Yes, I want. Can you hear me? Yes, please. I'm a member of the KML. All right. Good afternoon, Madam Chair and fellow board members. My name is Anthony G. Baptiste. And we are proposing a sub-unit building. We are proposing a sub-unit building of which one unit will be a affordable unit. And a number unit will be a handy cap accessible unit. We were able to meet with the abutters and the neighborhood and the neighborhood associations. And we also appreciated their feedback. And we went through our process and we greatly believe that this sub-unit, the fact that we're going to, we are going to offer a affordable unit. And also a accessible unit is what the city really needs. From there, I'm going to let my great architect take over to kind of go over the plant. Thank you. Thank you, Madam Chair, members of board. This is Eric Gagerson, out text. As you can see, if you'll follow the floor of the plants, the first floor of the plant is laid out as a group to accessible unit. We've got a number of comments that they, while there is some accessibility in these kind of smaller and no, no elevator buildings, there's very rarely a unit that's built wheel chair accessible. And that's what group one unit on the first floor that you see right here would be. There are also four parking spaces located on the property and there would be under the building or mostly under the building in the rear. And then the levels of a photo are pretty straightforward. There are two that two bath, two per level. Each of them having access to both stairs. The building would be fully sprinkled. And both units have on the upper floor and each have a gap. So it's fairly straightforward. You see this plant, you see the whole three of the levels to level two reform. Next slide. Yeah, and then you'll see the same roof plan and then the elevations of a building well tall. We tried to use a lot of the local vernacular to help it to fit in. Even though it's going to be taller a little bit narrower proportion than all of the buildings well. That is my presentation. Happy to answer any questions. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Can you talk about the open space in that area of violations? Yeah, we are short. I don't have the numbers from me. We are required. We do have a very minimal amount of open space on the ground floor. And that's why we tried to have it back on each level, but not everything. Mr. Hampton, are you available to elaborate on the planning department's recommendation? Thank you, Madam Chairman. I'm John Hampton, City Boston Planning Department. We are recommending denial without prejudice for this proposed project, even under the old Mattapan zoning, which was one family. This proposal was excessive. And with the work of the rezoning of the new Mattapan through plan Mattapan and even the 80 use. We are still excessive. We would recommend denial without prejudice so that the opponent can go and even take a look at plan Mattapan. We see what the recommendations are because this new zoning district allows for maximum of three units, which is upzoned from the one family zoning that was in play before. And we would even support the addition of an 80 use in something like this. But because of the new Mattapan and zoning and the work that went in to get it approved, the planning department cannot support this proposal. And recommends a lot of opportunities. Thank you. Other questions from the board? Here none. Can I have public testimony? I'm chairman and members of the board for the record. My name is Jeremy Bembery and the Mattapan community engagement specialist for the Office of Neighborhood Services. The applicant has completed the community process, which consists of an approach meeting with the service agent on May 14th and a civic meeting on June 13th, with the River Street Civic Association. The approach meeting was likely attended in concerns were voiced over the time frame to complete the project. They then went before the civic did oppose the project and raised a number of concerns, mostly in regard to the size of the project, a few of the concerns. Again, there were many not enough parking the civic. I did request that they would like to see changes to that project and for them to return to the civic. The proponent did state you would take those considerations, those concerns into consideration. But we'd like to move forward with the plans that's presented for you today. Thank you for your time and members of the Office of Neighborhood Services. We'd like to defer to the board for the judgment of this time. Thank you. Any other raised hands? Sorry, we have a carry that's looking to speak. I send my question to you. We'll just see it. Are you looking to give testimony, carry? I'm sorry. Did I just check? A side of carry I have no additional raised hands. Sorry, I see the Patrick. I apologize. It was a Patrick. Okay. That's some hands of him waiting for this point. I'll start with Patrick. Can you hear me? Yes. My name is Patrick Campbell. I'm at 95 Standard Street right across from where this project is supposed to be. Put it into it. I'm against it. So one in this area right here where I'm at, it's all single family. It's not a safe project. I can understand if you're coming with a two family or a three family, but a seven family unit adjacent to a Boston housing. No, that's me right there. Thank you. Do you want to go to the city? Yes. Can you hear me? Yes. Thank you. So my name is Philip. I live in 91 Standard Street, Philip Hudson. Also, it was across the street from the proposed building. I would also agree that with this Patrick Campbell, I also have its concerns or would not agree with the proposed building, because of its size and the nature of the neighborhood. There's not enough green space. I also have concerns with art. As Mr. Campbell mentioned, it sits right on the corner. And an uphill corner. Since like a blind corner where already a lot of accidents have happened, with then more cars parked on the street, I think this risk will be even greater. And also, we already have issues with critters around here, coyotes, rats, raccoons, everything that is already been caused to me to Boston. Animal security here because of attacks from animals. I think we've built like this in a seven unit apartment, these risks are only rights. Social that reason, yeah, I would always my concern and not agree with the proposal. Thank you. Do we have a gentleman? Hi, yes, my name is Dylan. So I agree with this project because we need more sort of the housing in the community and in the greater bus area. So that would be and take a trust for the community in that raise value of our home to community. Thank you. The record, what is your address? I live in the right on the street. Okay, thank you. And that's reading my opinion. Any other raised hands, Jessica? Yes. I'm a Dino 104s industry. I do support this project because I feel like it would be providing more housing. And I do like that out there is affordable units available. So thank you. So how's the raised hands here, AJ? What's sling? We hear from Carrie and you didn't. Yeah, AJ go ahead. Yeah, this is AJ. I'm over at 96 standard. You know, are you the project proponent? That's the address of the project. No, I know. This is about a nice six standard. Okay, I thought he said you lived there. Okay, no, no, no, no. I agree with this project because I mean, the rent hasn't twice as just astronomical. So it's it's I've been living in the area for a long time. Definitely much needed. I think the what I heard about the handicap, accessible unit is is is a great addition. And I don't see any issues to be honest with you. Thank you. I think you got to everybody. Am I missing anyone? Wesley? Hi, I'm just kidding. Oh, go ahead, Carrie. Hi, I I I went over in one tall standard street and I also want to raise in the area. I'm calling and support to this project. I bring this official to the community, especially with the candy cap, accessible unit and the affordable housing. Thank you. And it was like you're trying to get to you. Oh, can you hear us? I think it might be issue was connectivity, but I don't want to. Oh, yeah, we hear us. Go ahead. Wesley? I don't know. Okay, I don't know if you want to put your comments in the chat. We can't hear you. And I have no questions from the board. Hello. We can hear you. If you cannot hear us, please put your comment in the chat. Otherwise, we'd love to hear from you. What my name is Wesley. Can you guys hear me? Yes. So yes. So I've been support of this project because I'm on one local standard street and the rent that I've been paying. It's just, you know, out of control. So I'm taking, you know, it's some sort of competition. The more, you know, apartments that, you know, that being built, you know, the less, you know, it would be called, not people in the area. So this is the reason why I'm in support of the project. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Hearing none. Is there a motion? I'm going to see. Yeah, I would, I mean, I, I'd like to see this project go forward, but I think it's too dense as proposed. I'd like to propose a motion to deny it without prejudice and have the proponent work with the planning department to come back with a, with the project that's less dense. Is there a second? I think that for the same reasons, to sort of seeking to too many exceptions to the code, not know kind of where there's a, if there's a middle ground, plus the fact that there's new based zoning there. So I do second. Miss Benados. Motion. Mr. Stanford. Yeah. Mr. Valencia. I don't want to vote no. Mr. Miss Betaprasa. I'm going to vote no, because I actually think it should just be a straight denial because it's the project's way too dense. And I don't necessarily see a negotiation with the planning department in regards to the desires of the applicant. Mr. Collins. Mr. Collins, are you I knew? Yes, you are. Yeah, sorry about that. I'm going to go to yes. Mr. Eiken. Yes. Miss Benados. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. The motion carries. Mr. Eiken. Mr. Eiken. Mr. Eiken. Mr. Eiken. Mr. Eiken. Mr. Eiken. Mr. Eiken. Mr. Eiken. Mr. Eiken. Mr. Eiken. Mr. Eiken. Mr. Eiken. Mr. Eiken. Mr. Eiken. Mr. Eiken. Mr. Eiken. Mr. Eiken. Mr. Eiken. Mr. Eiken. Mr. Eiken. Mr. Eiken. Mr. Eiken. Mr. Eiken. Mr. Eiken. Mr. Eiken. Mr. Eiken. Mr. Eiken. Mr. Eiken. Mr. Eiken. Mr. Eiken. Mr. Eiken. Mr. Eiken. Mr. Eiken. Mr. Eiken. Mr. Eiken. Yes. Mr. Eiken. Mr. Eiken. Mr. Eiken. Mr. Eiken. Mr. Eiken. Mr. Eiken. The back of the organization, the applicant is a Massachusetts nonprofit with a mission and demonstrated history of preparing young women and non-binary people of color for working the tech industry. The applicant is graduated nine cohorts of 350 students and many of whom have gone on to success in the tech industry. With respect to 43 and 43 rear-hunching street, we picture what we are seeking to do is to rehab the existing residential structure that fronts Hutching Street and the existing carriage house which is in the rear of Hutching Street of the lot in order to provide the state of the Art Technical Coding Center with educational facilities and housing for up to 14 student applicants. So for the main house, just as a summary and I'm going to turn it to our architect next, we're going to convert the main house into educational space and residential orders but to expand to seven bedrooms and to have the capacity for up to 14 of the program students and some educational space in the basement. For the carriage house, in the rear, we'd like to convert this into an additional main building on the site with professional school and one family that has drawing uses. This would be comprised of computer lab, recreational multipurpose space in the first floor, drawing it on the second floor and an additional deck and dormer. Secret also envisions allowing the multipurpose space to be accessed by the community for meetings and events. And what we plan to do on site is not only to provide housing for students but to provide coding training so as to cover your advancement placement financial literacy programs, dietary health and mental health programs among others. Now I'll turn it to our project, our Tech Rady Art Ragsdale to run through the actual nuts and bolts of the proposal. Thank you for seeing this project. I just wanted to, if you could scroll back to the beginning of the drawings and go to that site plan because they do want to point out one thing on site plan. Initially, so the rear part of this project is the carriage house, the goal is to convert that into glass from one lower level and additional dwelling unit on the upper level for a program director in that space. And in order to do that, we initially thought we needed to separate this into real lot and in front lot in order to create additional dwelling unit, not on the same lot. Things have changed to scroll units now are allowable on the same lot. So this site plan has been altered to show now we have a, through discussions with the fire marshal, we now have a path, not pervious pavers for fire trucks, but a fire path, a lit fire path that gets back to that back additional dwelling unit and that is all by the new kind of dwelling unit guidelines. So that has been revised to help alleviate any addition, any issues with additional dwelling in the back. So that same plan wise, we're not really changing anything on the site, existing building, both main building and the carriage house again as I mentioned, we're developing the carriage house and the classroom or lower level apartment on the upper level. And if you want to scroll down, I can talk a little bit about the plans for renovating the main house, which is again, it's a rehabilitation, the building has kind of fallen into repair. There's already been a little bit of work done on it, but the idea is to renovate the main house into a dorm space for 14 cohorts with, you know, co-loving spaces of kitchens and bathrooms, you can scroll down through there. Not a lot of major structural changes on the interior. These are the demo plans, this shows you what plans or what partitions are going down, photographs of areas that are going to get rehabilitated and at ease of the plans. First floor will have an accessible unit and then it will have an elevator added to it, so that accessible unit will be accessed from the ground and then the upper floors will have bathrooms and will have seven rooms for two cohorts in each room. And a kitchen on the lower level with some more supports face on the lower level as well. This is that lower level you're looking at here with the library. I'll catch you that. So really the goal is to just lightly touch the inside and renovate it, get it back into shape, on the exterior we want to get it back to its original, you know, its original look. Right now there's a little bit of sighting on it which we plan to take down and we have the original veneer, discolombs, you know, that need to be replaced and replaced. So the goal is to get this back to the, you know, the grand nature that it had when it was originally built. But this has got a new life. It's now going to be living space for the cohorts who are going to further their education in the coding industry. So that's a brief description of what's going on. I think it's going down, this should be also plans for that, plans for the carriage house and not in here. Maybe. No. The carriage house is simple apartment on the cycle floor and out here this is the carriage house here. Again this is 43R. Again, classrooms, this is the original, the existing conditions, you scroll down, you can see again, only changes to the exterior and this one is putting a balcony at the back for access to the apartment on the cycle floor. Again these are all existing conditions. You're going to scroll through that demolition plans and here you go. That's the classroom level. The goal is to have this classroom for the students but also space for the community to use, you know, coordinate with the community, to have community events in this as well. ADA bathroom and then if you go to the next page you'll see the apartment, the plan for the apartment on the upper floor. That's a two bedroom apartment, two baths and I'm going to catch it. So that's just the plans. So we take a few questions if anybody has any. You just confirm the seven dwelling units, sorry, seven bedrooms. Are they existing so there's currently six in the main house and one in the carriage house? And you're just taking? No, the carriage house, this is a new apartment on the upper level of the carriage house. There are seven bedrooms in the 43 Hutchins. There are seven bedrooms on the upper, well on all three floors. Actually it is in eight. It is accessible. You know, the first floor and three bedrooms on the second and third floor. They're mostly, what was there existing? There are some partition changes to, you know, add classes and things like that but those seven units, those seven bedrooms are all in the, yeah, in the main building for the students. I just want, sorry, it was a pretty positive, effective director. Yeah, sorry, yeah, they asked me to take that one and then we'll have you get smooth to bedrooms in the carriage house. It's on the way. Okay. Okay. Thank you. So, we're seeking the additional use permit for the transitional housing use and additional variances for the professional school use, the national requirements, including water area, off street parking, the new vering area as thought alluded to, front yard, side yard, rear setbacks, a lot of frontage for the reader and two or more dwelling structures in the same lot. What we acknowledge is an increase in intensity of the use for this site throughout the process we've aimed to work just within the existing building on the ropes for each structure in order to balance functionality and meet programmatic goals. The site's bound by residential structures on all side except on Hutching Street and the carriage house itself is funded by the residential structure. Both structures are pre-existing. The main house was rebexed in 1900 but this obviously constrains the ability to build out this lot with respect to the transitional housing use. The neighborhood does feature a number of transitional housing sites including on Hutching Street. However, I would note this is a much more narrow use. Here the applicants are going to be young students between 18 and 25 for Massachusetts who go through a rigorous application process to join the cohort. Based on class application cycles, GCO is expecting almost a thousand applicants to vie for these 14 spots. We believe the on-site impacts are mitigated by GCO student code of conduct. On-site staff supervision and students are not granted any parking or allowed to own any cars. So we would definitely encourage them to use alternative modes of transit as we're situated near Columbus and Humboldt Ave. Ultimately, the goals to provide some much needed work for the development housing and educational space which we think will serve the neighborhood and the larger community hopefully for generations. Just another note, our community process. The applicant has undergone extensive community process including multiple butters meetings. Two meetings with the Garrison Travert Neighborhood Association and an additional community-wide meeting held on July 11th at the Pleasant Home Mechanical Engineering Baptist Church. OAS has assisted us in administering meetings with the neighborhood. They have really concerns to us as a result of the community process and in accordance with the neighborhoods wishes, we are requesting a provider from the board to limit the granting of the transitional housing and professional school uses just to the applicant. We have received the support of the Garrison Travert Neighborhood Association as well as Catholic Tony for Ann is Anderson. We've also been supported by the Office of Reptina Tyler and Seeking State Grant Funding which we have received in order to move the project forward. I'll pause here and I have the panelist with me to answer any questions. Thank you very much for your time. Thank you so I don't know if this may be more of a comment to the staff but the notice does say seven. The reference that's our drawing units or something like that that's why I was asking that question so I don't know if that just needs to be corrected somewhere. Samantha, Natalie. Madam Chair, looking at it now it does say seven bedrooms. I think one of the notices is two and we're going to the same one but we do have this recording as well as the minutes that we're keeping and we can show that in the record. Okay, thank you. Questions from the board? Madam Chair, I would like to ask if Mr. Tameco is here from the Transportation Department. He has the command being to remove parking spaces number one and four and I would like to ask him what about his comment. Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Bob Demiko, BTD. Actually one of the spaces I think is the more important than the front yard and four spaces it's just not going to work and even with two spaces it's not going to be that easy but I think that two spaces can work but floor can't but probably maneuverability and like I said space them a floor is actually in the front yard. Thank you. Thank you. Other questions from the board? I just didn't see Madam Chair, I didn't see a BPDA recommendation on this. I'm just missing out there as Jeff here to speak to. I think. No, it was. It was at the approval. May I have a minute approval? Okay, thank you. Mr. Preskill. Yeah, I was in a later version. Other questions from the board? I hear none, ma'am. Public testimony. Good afternoon, Madam Chair and members of the board. For the record, my name is Ashit Jene and I am the Ross Raili-Azon from the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. The applicant has completed the community process which consisted of an abutters meeting on March 19th and a civic meeting on April 14th with guys and children. Abutters voiced many concerns. Some of the concerns are regarding density, parking, zoning changes from residential to commercial, lanes on the property. We also received a 67 signature petition in opposition as well as 13 letters opposing which are from immediate abutters. We also received a verbal opposition from State Route, French Borough and so they have, and with that being said, we would like to defer to the board for their judge by the time. Thank you. Any other office? You hear me? Yes. Hello, members of the board, President. I would like to go on record on behalf of Council Anderson and I would like to better she says I probably submit this letter in strong support of the enterprising and impactful work taken on by G-code at their proposed site 43 Hutchins Street. Our office received correspondence from residents, advocates, community leaders, buyers and nonprofits, organizations, all whom offered their enthusiastic support for this program and its location on Hutchins Street. A G-code represents an exciting and inspiring opportunity to invest in young women in pursuit of financial professional self development. We know all too well that Boston's emerging tech industry needs more and needs to more intentionally involve women, particularly women of color and G-code if given the opportunity to close the gap. Council wants to go on record to clarify some of these conceptions about this proposal which have been brought to the attention of the office. Councilor says let me be clear, this facility is near Zimond for nor intends to be used as a halfway house, a sober home or any other facility beyond its stated purpose of providing an invaluable opportunity for young women to gain access to an industry which too often excludes women, particularly women of color. And while a few residents have come forward with concerns about the building's use, fueled by the misconception that the facility would be used as some sort of halfway house, the overwhelming majority of residents recognize the value that G-code offers, not just to their participants but to the community at large. To lose this opportunity would represent a major setback for the community and the Councilor and just to vote favorably on behalf of G-code. Thank you so much. Karatea? Yes, I am at the Arun Chicham and the architect and the great supporter of G-code and this I need learned about this opportunity and G-code I've been following everything that organization has been doing and this is the most what G-code is doing, not just young women of color, it's doing a lot of things or neighborhood as well. This is the most effective way to go against gentrification, keeping local residents and people in need and also showing our commitment and their commitment to empowering diversity and inclusivity in the tech force and in our neighborhoods. So I think going against this organization is just going against education, diversity and inclusivity. Thank you. What's your address for the record? 1070 B.C. Street, 3D Bromcline. Thank you. Hello. Hello, Madam Chair and members of the board. I'm Mo and I represent the constituents of Huston Street neighbors. Many have their hands raised right now and we are the 67 petitioners and who are my self who oppose the proposed zoning changes for 43, dashboard 3R HUD genes. Over half of us are homeowners. We are all taxpayers and voters who want to preserve the residential family oriented integrity and cohesion of our wonderful street. Furthermore, the garrison auto neighborhood association vote does not represent direct the voters who reside in Huston Street. On the contrary, the majority of Huston Street residents actually oppose this project but we're not able to vote because garrison charter changed their meeting date and require payment to vote. I would like to note that the compliance with the ZBA bosses was not adhered to regarding 43 as many of the voters did not receive mandatory notice of the March of butters meeting with the city of Boston. And just to note, just according to the base state banner, over 90% of transitional housing locations in Boston are located directly in our neighborhood of Roxbury. The proposed spot zoning changes in the middle of our block would be detrimental to our community fabric and stability. To support this was that a president for future developments to disrupt family neighborhood blocks like ours. Our community is being disproportionately targeted with anti-family developments. Last week, we strongly urged the board to hear it and said that many, many 67 petitioners voices of Huston Street and reject the proposed variance of zoning changes for 43-43R. Thank you. Thank you. Ma'am? Ma'am? Good afternoon and thank you for this opportunity to speak. This is Ma'am and Chase. I reside at 47 Hutchins Group, which is a direct of butter. I first want to say I concur with the previous speaker in all of her remarks. I would note that we have lived at 47, have been owners at 47 for 45 years. I am a retired human services professional. I retired as Assistant Secretary for Health and Human Services for the Commonwealth. And in the early 80s, as on behalf of the Rodsbury Motor Service Center, I actually opened the first residential program of the shelter for families in Rodsbury. I know from experience what it takes to run a residential program. I have had conversations with the director, the executive director of GCO, who is also the owner of the properties. Regarding what her plans are for management of this project, understanding how complicated it is both in terms of management of a residential program and in terms of financing a nonprofit in this day and age. And I have not been convinced or not nor am I comfortable with the ability to successfully manage the long term, the kind of nonprofit that's being proposed here. And while the owner may have a significant experience working with individuals to develop their skill, she has no experience running a residential program for young women, and particularly for 14 young women. I'm concerned that our community is once again, or our street, is being asked to sacrifice the stability of our street for the greater of select individuals once again. As Monota earlier, our community has been imposed upon in significant numbers in ways that we have not had an opportunity to have influence. And I would hope that the board would give the same consideration to the residents of Huching Street as they gave to the residents of the South End. The consequence of this project on our street is much more significant and as lasting as the impact of adding a deck in the South End, thank you for your consideration. Thank you. Okay, a few raised hands. Ollie? It's just be quick because I know there are a lot of people who did receive a lot of comments. So it's... Okay. Tanisha Maddie. I have one of you. No? This is Ollie. Can you hear me? Yes. Hi. Good afternoon, Madam Chair and Members of the board. I'd like to say my name is Ollie Austin-Nupi. I've decided at the Huching Street. I will be tired of Boston Public School High School Guidance Council. So I have lots of experience in regard to online courses. And I will say that in favor of G-Code, their success has been because they have been an online program. They do not offer any courses that they create themselves. The courses they offer are free and online. You and I can access these courses through Coursera, Udemy, Code Academy and Khan Academy. These are totally free courses that anyone can access. G-Code has set itself up as a middleman to present the liberal services for courses that are already free. And the courses are unlicensed and uncertified. So it's not true that these courses are leading young women into the field of technology. Okay? That's why if you go to G-Code's website, it says they have experience and structures which is code for unlicensed and uncertified, which means when these young ladies graduate, if you want to call it that, they are only able to receive a certificate. So the program is good in an online form. But why should we take the risk of taking an online course platform and then trying to transfer it into a dormitory with no previous experience of success? Thank you very much. Thank you. Do I have any questions? Do I have any questions? Yes, let's just be brief. Okay. Maddie, did we hear from you? No, you haven't yet. But I'd like to speak now. I wanted to address some of the previous comments. So my name is Maddie Wallace. Oh, can you hear me? Go ahead. Yeah, name and address please. Yes, I'm getting to that. My name is Madison Wallace. I'm a resident of 43th Houching Street. I'm also a prison Wallace's daughter. I graduated from Eastern University. I've been living in this neighborhood and frequenting there since my entire life. And so I wanted to address some of the concerns which I noticed a little to do with zoning. Most you have to do with personal vendors or just honest disinformation and misinformation of things that have been spread. So some of the things that have been spoken about by concerning that they are just baseless and groundless. And so one of those being that the courses are a middle ground and these are course you can find a course area. Unfortunately, you cannot middle man community. But when I was at Northeastern and I was a business student and I had nobody else in my classes that looked like me. I had to seek community. I had to seek additional programs like G Code. So one was named MLT where I was able to have other black and brown students to pursue careers in tech like I did. And that was the foundation of this idea was that I was able to get into tech through an alternative path. I would have had a lot of opportunity to do so considering my experience was in fashion. But because of this specific program that I had the access to do that I was lucky enough to get accepted to. I was able to do that. It totally changed my trajectory and ability to. Land of the world. Can you please access your point? Yeah. Because obviously, you're supporting the other mother. You have the point? Yeah. I mean, I'm supporting regardless. But I just wanted to address the misinformation which is that multiple means is false. That G Code is a middle man, middle ground that's false. And that there's no previous experience there that's false as well. My mom is that excited to do this before. So I think support should be considered based on what's actually out there. There was an interview with CBS that you guys can access. And to learn the real information behind it, I would urge the board to do that. Thank you. Thank you, ma'am. Jessica, are there other raised hands? From above? Yes. So, if you're in the butter, can you show you? Yes. I love everyone. My name is Sina Shana. I'm a resident at 35 Leasing Street. And I'm someone whose life has been directly touched by G Code in more than one way. I joined the program. I was bringing up my life for this really seeking change and wanting to give it my career in a different direction. And G Code provided me with the opportunity to study how to build websites completely free. It's a program specifically made for a black, brown, and indigenous women and non-binary people to have a space where they can not only learn but drive. Not only do we have lessons every week, but we were also given projects to develop our professional portfolio and attended workshops on how we can market ourselves to find the job that we want. The thing that stuck with me the most was the community that G Code is able to forge. I was surrounded by other people who looked like me, other women who I could identify with were going through the same things I was. As someone who finds it very difficult to ask for help when I need it, I always felt like the team and staff were looking out for me. And we're always there to help if I needed it. After completing the program, I was fortunate enough to join the team that G Code has, which allows me to work directly with the community that I was once a part of, encouraging and helping our fellows when they need it. G Code has had an immense impact on my life. It's providing me with these essential technical skills, the support of network, and the confidence to pursue my career goals. This program is more than just an educational opportunity. It's a lifeline for many individuals like myself who are looking for a way to break into the tech industry but face barriers. The renovation of 40th of your Hedge and Straight will give many young women a color based in Boston. The opportunity to really change their lives. With the dedicated space for learning and growth, G Code can expand its reach and provide even more resources and support for those who need it most. This new co-living space would empower these women's gain valuable skills, overcome obstacles, and achieve their full potential. So I fully support G Code and its mission to create more inclusive and diverse communities by offering invaluable resources and support to those who need it most. Thank you for considering my testimony. Sure, we have a few more. Five more raise hands and we'll keep going. Thank you, ma'am. Yes, let's just try to be brief as people have an opportunity to speak. Okay, baby. Sure. Can everybody hear me? Yes, ma'am. Great. So I'm managing director of G Code and I'm thrilled to support this project. I'm sorry to pause you. Can we let the public speak and then we'll turn it over to the applicant and anyone including yourself from the applicants team? Sure. So let's start. Yeah, thank you. Nevermind. Jessica, can you keep going? So here with the team, just wait and we'll get to you. Okay, I don't see. Can you raise the hand again if you're going to give testimony for this proposal? I don't see any additional raise. Okay, Kristi. Kristi, can you hear me? Yes. Okay, thank you. I would just like to clarify that this property has been unoccupied since its purchase in 2015. There was just a comment saying that Maddie Williams at 43 Hutching Street, I'm not sure if that was her intent, but that is simply not true. Where do you live? I'm at 39 Hutching Street. I'm a Director Butter. Well, we have a house in the area. That's what Maddie was referring to. So I can address. And what is that address? No, we won't give you off other families address, but I can assure you that we have homes in the area. Thank you. Okay, so let's go. Yeah, go ahead. Samantha. No, no, you were saying that up here. I was trying to let the buyers finish before we turn back. Okay, this brief, I believe Carol would like to speak next. The community simply will no longer stand on the sidelines and accept the will of developers seeking to take advantage of our neighborhoods. There are no circumstances in which we will support spot zoning for additional transitional housing in our neighborhood. G code and this proposed development are completely unrelated. This is a private property and we do not want our neighborhood zoned to be anything other than what it is. Thank you. Thank you. I have. I don't see any additional raise hands at the moment. She said a Carol had her hands raised. Carol. And you. Carol, look at this face in your raise hand. I don't see the. Can you hear me? We don't know. Okay. So my name is Carol. No, and I live at 35 on the street. I'm going to direct the butter. And thank you for allowing me this opportunity to express my experience with this person. My family's lived up this property for more than 60 years. So we've been here for a long time. You see the other changes. I'm going to just get right into it. I want to emphasize to the zoning ward my experience of financial use and physical assault by Richard Wallace. Based on my experience with this individual, I would say this is not a conventional business person. On the front end, she has proven to be a person willing to break financial moves and title in herself to create a work products, falsifying her actions to induce and mislead her own daughter to incite violence against me and benefiting from a home attack exemption on a vacant building for the last nine years. A track record like this leads to impossible to predict what type of complications that might arise under this person's leadership managing 14 impressionable young women. The lack of accountability exhibited by this individual should make it a bigger person to operate in a residential neighborhood. I'm going to emphasize residential lack commercial that has gone through this, we've gone through decades of marginalized policies and business dealings that have contributed to generational harm and stagnation. As human beings, we deserve to be treated with dignity and respect. And I am one of the lean workers and that's what I'm seeking. We're covering up signs that have been taken. Thank you. One key is that Andrew, do you want to say something before I jump in? Is there any other comments before we turn it back to the applicant? I see no waste hands at the moment. Okay, thank you. Sorry Ms. Wallace. Thank you. I will. I'll be in your concerns. Thank you, Madam Chair. I do want to respond to a few points and also turn it to Bridget afterward. With respect to property neglect, there is no infestation on the property apparent. We have not had any violations from ISD whatsoever since Bridget has owned the property. With respect to any outstanding legal issues, there's a dispute that Bridget is in. It's a private dispute relating to purchase of the property that's a separate legal process that's proceeding to trial in October. So we don't think that has any bearing on the zoning relief that G-code is an organization which is the applicant is seeking. And so just to get ahead of this too with respect to any concerns about complex adventurous, G-code is a Massachusetts charitable corporation. It has a governing board. It has corporate documents which comply with Massachusetts law. G-code is entered into a ground lease at arms length for the property. Therefore consideration has always been given to delineating the rights and roles of the organization. With the balance and the rights involved through organization with Bridget as a landlord. And I'll just turn it to Bridget to respond to any other specifics. Sure, and I also be busy and just wanted to clarify a couple of things. As far as Mike or I don't want to say Mike, because again, I'm the executive director. And so as Andrew mentioned that this is governed by a board made up of very distinguished members of the community from State Street to potential work at rural all in many in the text space to a mass challenge to a number of folks. So they've been properly, they hold that role and are accountable to that role and I'm accountable to them. In terms of my background and carries their debarering on this. I'm an urban planner from Tufts. I've worked in Rob's Berry for the better part of 30 plus years. I was there when they wrote the original Rob's Berry Master Plan. I've been on a number of IATs. I've sat on a number of parcel dispositions from dream collaborative to cruise to a number of them. So I have been working as part of this neighborhood for many years. I've also my background with young women. I work with young women who are due to cater to department of youth services. They were locked up in facilities across the state. And I've worked with them for over five plus years. My initial proposal coming out of MIT Fellows program was to design a AASDA care facility for young women who were due to cater to D.Y.S. and leaving D.Y.S. upon the 18th birthday. So this project has been close to me. But it was really my daughter who was really the impetus behind the opportunities that she was presented with in order to go and detect that I was in the community that she had behind her that we wanted to extend to other folks. So as far as that is concerned, again, I have ample expertise I've worked in for the state for five years for the Department of Housing and Community Development under the now the new chief that's under Sheila Dylan who was in Detroit. I worked with him for the D.A.C.D.I. worked in mental public health for a number of years for the city. And we were just contacted by the city today to partner again under the housing lab around co-living. This is not transitional living. That is just the use that we have to use for this. As far as the zoning board is concerned and any concerns about an individual throwing, muttslinging and throwing issue that need this individual was actually part of this process initially. But because of their behavior, they are no longer a part of this project. So they were offering their house up, which is the individual at 35 Hutch and Street, to be a G-code site. But because they are no longer a part of this, this has become personal. So that is what I will say to that. And I will not act in kind and throw mud back in the other direction as I can because there's this plenty there to do. This is you with about these young women and the opportunities that they will be presented. Boston or Boston in particularly Massachusetts is one of the most expensive places to live. And we are trying to provide housing, education and support so that young women can live, learn and work in this community. And so we humbly ask for your support. I'll quickly turn it over to BB, who is our managing director. Thank you. Thank you, BB. Just a. Thank you. I was thinking of that. So I want to just say that, you know, my name is Bridget Brown. I'm the managing director of G-Code. And along to our residents of Dorchester and Roxbury, I experience includes communications, community involvement, community engagement and all of that. So I'm thrilled to support the renovation of 43 Hutchings Street. This is a project that's vital to our mission. And, you know, I am excited that, you know, we have been doing this for so long. And that work is empowering Black Brown and Indigenous women and non-binary people of color and tech. And we have a lot of graduates who've gone on to the tech sector in Boston. And we're, you know, contributing to that tech sector. So one of our partnerships is really helping to grow, it involves helping to grow the, you know, the diversity within the tech sector. At the same time, you know, we want to renovate 43 Hutchings Street into a co-living space that will provide like a state of the art, state of the art classrooms, labs and increase our capacity to serve our participants who are, you know, Boston and greater Boston, young women who want a tech career. I've had 20 years of experience working in the tech and communication sector. And I know how hard it is to really kind of hone your skills and land a job. And so G-code is the organization that's helping us do that. So therefore, it's like a four-winter in this process. This space is not just going to be a, you know, a G-code, but it's going to be a community of that's going to have events and workshops to the community. It's going to promote engagement and cohesion with the community. We've also invited community members to be a part of the structuring of this space and the organization of this space. We want community members to be on the advisory board. We want community members to repute the applicants who are coming into this program. We've extended that invitation to the community members, although they haven't mentioned this on the skull, but we have and we want to continue to do that to have the community involved. This is a project that is really going to benefit not just, you know, Bob. Lastly, I want to say we're not developers, we're residents of Boston, so you get to support our participants who are members of our community. Young Black women who want to go into the communications or, you know, the tech sector, which is something that I have, you know, kind of entered in my last 20 years. And I know how difficult it was for me. So I want to be a mentor and to help to us, so that in. And I've been doing that with our, you know, Black, our previous cohort, which consisted of about 50 students who went through this program. So it's really kind of continuing the work that many of us have been doing. Black, brown, women, and aspiring to be tech professionals. So that's what we want to do. And it means taking up space in our community and advocating for our community, and advocating for the next generation of people. So we're not developing the developers, we're residents of Boston, so you can just support young Black, brown, and indigenous women in our community. We have broad support from individuals, foundations, including support from the governor. Did she meet her self or did someone meet her? Yeah, she may have been, she may have dropped the call. I just wanted to say quickly to, I'm sorry. Yeah, so we're not the developers, we're not the developers, we're residents of Boston. It's seeking to support younger Black, brown, and indigenous women who live in Boston who want to enter the tech field. We have broad support from individuals and also support from the state and from the city and from our partners. And, you know, we would like to move forward with this project. And I want to make clear that this is not a transitional housing, you know, request. This is a request to green co-living, which the city is also exploring, and you know, is interested in talking to us about. And it's also in through the co-living experience, we're going to improve our communities. We're going to transform our community. We're going to have more people who are qualified to go into the tech sector and build it up and increase the number from 2% of women of color working in the tech sector to like 10%. So that's my testimonial. And I thank you all for, you know, good opportunity to, you know, provide it. Thank you, ma'am. Any other questions from the board? So I just want to call this and we are losing a board member after this case. And so shortly, so any questions from the board? Okay. Hearing none. Is there a motion? Motion to approve. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Stambridge. Yeah. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Betar-Brasau. Yes. Mr. Collins. No. Mr. Eakin. Yes. Yes. Are you voting yes or are you saying it or both? Yes. Okay. Yes. Thanks. Ms. Panado. Yes. The chair votes no but the motion carries. Excuse me. Not a bunch. May I speak? We're done with this case unfortunately. Is this process not to support the community members whom it affects the most? We have 67. We have two. We have done with the product. We have done with the product. We have done with the product. Thank you. I would invite you to please connect with the ISP staff. Unfortunately, the board has voted. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Madam Chair and Board. Thank you. Much appreciated. Our next and last case to today is case B.O.A., 15783 with the address of 40 L Mach Street. It's the applicant and all of them and all their representatives are present with their please explain the case to the board. I can raise your hand if the audience votes on 40 L Mach. I don't see any raise hands at the moment. Okay. Raise hand. Carlos Ferra. Just say, can you hand me a hand? I can't. And we're losing a second board member in about 20 minutes. So let's see what we can do. This will be great. My name is Bill Mohan, licensing and something working with Carlos on this project. This project came before the board in 2003. It was passed by the CBA. It was approved by the BPDA. And then meeting with neighbors and looking at what we had, really, amounted to a two bedroom apartment and a one bedroom apartment. Meaning with the neighborhood association, I said, well, we like families here. And we're only thinking of apartments. And so, as a way we can get a second basement and make it two bedroom, two bath apartments. We said, well, the only space that's available to do that is the basement. Just, well, we really don't approve of a basement. But we talked about different options. And they talked about maybe our first floor with the bedrooms and put the kitchen and everything else in the basement. And we didn't like this. No, that's never a good idea to have open flame in a basement or a gas or anything like that. So we started again with the association. We went back to them and we met again on June 12th. And we presented our plan and they said, well, we would rather have you put in the changes to the basement, which included a full bath, full shower, a second egress, and done right, than be faced with a possible situation of somebody moving in to a one bedroom apartment. And suddenly you've got to have a dozen mattresses on the floor of the basement with none of the improvements that we made. And so they approved what we were doing and this should be a letter in your folder, a testing to that. Because that was sent to Stephanie directly. And so we have listened and worked with the neighborhood, the exterior of the building that you approved. We changed. It has not changed at all. It includes two parking spaces off the street. And it means two bedrooms, two bath apartments. And they are apartments and not going to be condos. They are apartments. And the neighborhood is very, very happy with that. And so that's what we're presenting to you today. Hope you're going to agree. Questions from the board? Thank you, Mr. Velocaya. No, this is the first time we're seeing these plans. So I couldn't offer one. I did see the plans from 2023. And as the comments said, we did recommend approval. But when it comes to putting a bedroom and a full bath, I'd love to be able to take a look at especially the ceiling heights down there. We are just a living space. But this is all that we, this is the first time that we've been seeing these plans. Both floors of the house, I'll call the floors of the house. They have like nine-foot ceilings, including the basement. So there is adequate height on the basement, third. And the area that we have on the back of the building is hard for me to show. But the back is like where we have the balconies. There was a window well that was built and is like a food door over there for egress and light for the basement. And we showed, as we said, we showed this to the neighborhood association. And they agreed. That's what they wanted to see those kinds of plans. And the only issue I see is just really a lack of air and light, you know, looking at your foundation wall and the basement. And there's absolutely no opening at all. It's a big building. And only to the bedroom. There's these kind of foldable doors to kind of a, yeah, it seems like it's a submerged. It's a folding, it's a folding sliding door. It's about 10 feet more. You're still underneath. You're still underneath a porch, you know, a deck. So there's absolutely no light in air coming in. What's the height of when you're outside of that bedroom to grade? You know, can you, you know, do you need a ladder to get out of it? You're going to have, we're going to need a ladder to get out of it. Yeah. It's a ball six. Did you go to the grade? Yeah, so the only thing I'm seeing is that you really have absolutely no light in air. Other than a little bit of light coming down from the, the opening that is framed from, you know, the deck underneath. Is this an issue, is we could discuss with BPD? Um, well, to be honest with you, I wouldn't want to discuss anything that nobody has seen in our shop. Yeah. So, right. So I think, if we had made a recommendation, I'd feel different about it, but this is the first time. Yeah. I, I don't have any further questions. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Can I have public testimony? Madam Chair, I'm members of the board for the record. My name is Jeremy Bemberley. I'm the mid-durch justice community engaged specialist for the Office of Neighborhood Services. The applicant has completed the community process. Our office agreed a full community process was not necessary. And the community was notified via flyer. We received no community response to the notification. I don't know. And when I'm to present to no more Harvard civic, we did not fully support the carpet. I, but they did allow it to move forward as they stated they would not want to hold up the process. I will have received no letters of support or opposition at this time. Thank you for your time in the mayor's office of neighborhood. We would like to defer to the board for their judgment at this time. Thank you. Thank you. Let me show you how no race stands at the moment. Okay. Any other questions from the board? With that, may I have a motion? Motion to defer. Is there a second? You'll be sure. Second. I'm sorry. Second. Okay. Thank you. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Mr. Betapurata. I'm going to vote no. Just simply because there's absolutely no window openings at all into the habitable room that they're proposing. Mr. Collins? Yes. Mr. Panato? Yes. Chair votes yes. The motion carries. Madam Chair, the date would be September to May 4th. Okay. The applicant received that September 24th. No, September 24th. Thank you very much. The defer is really to provide all some planning department opportunity to make a recommendation. So that should be noted. Yeah, exactly. Okay. Okay. Thank you everyone for your patience. This was a long one. In the next time. Okay. Go.