 you you you you you you into the record. Do not raise your hand before the relevant adjustments call, or the meeting post will not know to call on you at the appropriate time. Call. Mr. Stambridge. Good morning, Madam Chair. President. Good morning. Mr. Valencia. Sorry, we're in my chair. President. Good morning. Ms. Wewell. Good morning, Madam Chair. President. Good morning. Mr. Lino. Good morning, Madam Chair. President. Good morning. Ms. Bayboraza. Good morning, Chair President. Good morning. Ms. Turner. Good morning, Madam Chair. President. Good morning. That I'll turn it over to Mr. Stambridge. Thank you, Madam Chair. We'll begin with the approval of hearing men's 30-30. The men's are from September 18th and September 23rd of this year. With that, I will make a motion to approve the hearing men's. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Stambridge. Yeah. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Wewell. Are you on mute, Ms. Wewell? I can't hear you. I saw you. I will come back to you because I do see you. Mr. Lino. Yes. Ms. Bayboraza. Yes. Ms. Turner. Yes. Ms. Wewell. Yes. Yes. Yes. Perfect. All right. We've got you back. Chair votes, yes. The motion carries. Next, we have the extension. For 9.30 AM, we have a lot of cases today. All these are deemed reasonable in terms of the extensions. They are requesting. Should it be any questions regarding the master of reading men, please direct those questions to the manager. We'll begin with case B.O.A. 135989. What the address of 400,000, 8,000, easier. Thanks. Excuse me lord. It's a dialect. This is my assume. Well, we'll talk in just 30 minutes. I'll do that tomorrow. Can I bring it up? We're going to begin with the answer side. Next, I would like to thank Mr. Terri Ammut, to pay with the address of 2154 Washington Street. Next we have case BOA 1341524 with the address of 1121 Harrison Avenue. Next we have case BOA 1341518 with the address of 1105 Harrison Avenue. Next we have case BOA 1593227 with the address of 222 Walnut Avenue. Next we have case BOA 1187855 with the address of 61 Harrow Street. Next we have case BOA 1187538 with the address of 63 Harrow Street. Next we have case BOA 1472415 with the address of 351 Vermont Street. Next we have case BOA 1349736 with the address of 906 Dorchester Avenue. Next we have case BOA 1339772 with the address of 33 Davis Street. Next we have case BOA 898191 with the address of 40 Montblad Road. And finally we have case BOA 1367246 with the address of 14 Gardner Street. And those are the extension cases and requests that we have for today, Madam Chair. Thank you. If there are no questions, may I have a motion to grant the extensions as requested? Motion to grant the extensions as requested. Is there a second? Back in. Mr. Sperrinche. Yeah. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Uro. Yes. Mr. Wagon. Yes. Mr. Berberasa. Yes. Ms. Toner. Yes. Chair votes yes. The motion carries. Thank you, Madam Chair, members of the board. Joseph Feaster here. We'll now move on to the hearings scheduled for 9.38 AM. Book and before we go through the cases, are there any request for withdrawals or defrosse from the 9.30 AM? Yes, Madam Chair. I have two today. First one being 25 to 27 and a moral stream. Yeah, Attorney Spitz of that would be four cases. BOA 1718356. Would the address of 25 to 27 and a moral stream? Would you please explain? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board of Attorney Ryan Spitz with the answer, Marancy Business Address of 168B. First floor. Self-boston. We're seeking a deferral on this matter for two reasons. One is for some odd reason, there is no recommendation from the planning department on this proposal. I've reached out to the planning department as well and still waiting for a response to see what their proposal actually states for this proposal. Secondly, also too, as you all may be aware, the chair, Ms. Donne, will need to recuse herself as she heads one of the civic associations for this matter. We would also like a fair opportunity to be heard in front of a full seven member board at that point in time. So whatever that new date is, if we can work together with legal and as well as scheduling so ensure that there's an alternate member that when Ms. Donne does recuse herself, they'll have an alternate. So, Ms. Donne, I think we'll have to have that discussion because I recuse myself at the civic association meeting and I was clear that I did so in order to chair to continue my capacity as chair. So I think we should have that conversation offline. Yes, but you know, if you're recusing yourself from the actual hearing itself, I'll need an alternate member in order to- I'm not recusing myself from the actual hearing. I recuse myself from the civic. Okay, that's great. I was- We misunderstood that, so okay, that's great. So we'll just like to seek a deferral based upon the planning departments, inadvertently not having a recommendation on this proposal in order for us to allow us to read and see what their insight is. Thank you. Do we have any dates, Caroline? November 25th? Oh, sorry, Stephanie. That's okay, November 25th. Does that work for the applicant? That works. Okay, may I have a motion? I make the motion to the front November 25th. Is there a second? It's back in. Mr. Stembridge. Yeah. Mr. Valencia. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah. Yes, sorry, I have a comment. As we will. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Is it better, Barraso? Yes. Ms. Tano. Yes. Chair votes, yes, the motion carries. Seeing them. Great, thank you. Mr. Stembridge, the second one is 7527 Dorchester Street. So that will be for case BOA, 176, 5, 7, 3, 0, with the address of 75 and 77 Dorchester Street. Go ahead and turn your spells. Great, thank you, Mr. Stembridge. Madam Chair, I'm Mr. Boone, Attorney Ryan Spitz, and Zomerancy Business and Address of 168 H Street, first floor, self-bossed. We're seeking a deferral, this matter, as the advertisement was incorrect, it was missing two violations, it will need to be re-advertised. I believe that we worked out a date of November 18th, if that is still available, we will take it, please. No, the date of this available for this case, yes. Okay, thank you. May I have a motion? Moved you to the floor of this case, so November 18th. In turn second. Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Wewell. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Ms. Beter-Varaza. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Chair votes, yes, the motion carries. Okay, thank you. On the any further request for, which are all of the deferrals from the 930th time? Yes, Mr. Secretary, 19 million street. The O. Weston and Cruz. So that, so this request is for case BOA 1760292, the ADIOS of 19 million street. Would you go ahead and explain with? Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Good morning, Madam Chair and Members of the Board. My name is James Christopher of 686 Architects with the Business Address of 104s Road and Brain Tree. Today on behalf of the Honours of Questioning of Brief, deferral, there was some de minimis design changes during the community process, which we not filed with ISD, so the plans that the Board reviewed do not exactly match the final iteration. So we would like to correct directly there and have those plans submitted and reviewed by the Board. Stephanie, November 25th. Okay, by motion. Motion to deferral September, November 25th. Yes. Is there a second? That can. Mr. Stemberidge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Wu-Wo. Yes. Mr. Lina. Yes. Ms. Benaproza. Yes. Ms. Turner. Yes. Chair votes, yes. Motion carries. Thank you. Thank you. If there are no more requests for the draw of the deferral from the 9th or 9th conference, we'll begin with the case of BOA 171, or 885, with the address of 154 Maverick Street. It's the outskirt dead, or the representative of the person. We'll be putting the corresponding cases in the board. Hello. Good morning, everybody. I'm here because we're asking to have a revised listed report. There's been live entertainment at this address for the last, we've been here for eight years. But there was a proviso on that when it was granted to our landlord. Our landlord, John Tyler, who owns the building is actually here today too. The speaking favor of lifting the proviso so that we ourselves could also have a live entertainment. Any questions from the board? May I have public testimony? I'm here with the board. My name is Heather Jones, representing the mayor's Office of the Neighborhood Services. Regarding 154 Maverick Street, our office to first report the judgment on this matter. Since this location has had existing licensing and licenses in this neighborhood on the parcel, we connected them with the Gold Street Neighborhood Association who reviewed their proposal on 428-25, and they did not express any concerns to our office. At this time, the mayor's Office of the Neighborhood Services to first report the judgment on this matter. Thank you, everyone, for your time, consideration. Good morning, Madam Chair and members of the board. Good evening, everyone, we're on behalf of Boston City Council, Gabrielle, Claudus Apatos Office. Happy to meet you, the Council. I'd like to warm the record and support of this proposal. Thank you. Any other questions? Their National Commence. We have a motion. Motion to approve. Is there a second? Second. What? There's some range. Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Is we move out? Yes. Mr. Langham? Yes. Is better Brazo? Yes. Mr. Turner? Yes. Chair votes, yes, motion carries. Thank you all. In that case, you spend the floor. Take those two cases, be your way. One, seven, seven. Two, three. Two, two. What's the address of 27th Ann Coffey Street? If the applicant gets in, will they represent on the present? Will they please explain to the board? Yes. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board, attorney Nixzzula, McDermott, Quilty, Miller, and Hanley. Just a housekeeping issue, Mr. Stembridge. I wonder if you could also read into the record 29th Ann Coffey Street, which is the project. They're separate parcels, but they are related for this project. So, I think they're going to represent them together if you don't mind, Mr. Stembridge. Not a problem, Attorney. I could go wrong. So, the companion case that goes basically be your way. One, seven, seven. Two, three. One, eight. With the address of 29th Ann Coffey Street. Thank you for turning it in. Go ahead. Yes, sir. Thank you very much. Again, Nixzzula, McDermott, Quilty, Miller, and Hanley. If you could stay on this page, Mr. or Mrs. Vassier. With me today from Fenway. Forward, previously Fenway Community Development Corporation is Edward Quinn and Suneeth John. And from Embark Studios, who is our project architect, is Timothy Jones. Next slide, please. This is just site location. Again, here for both 27 and 29th Ann Coffey Street, both in Beacon Hill. They are adjacent properties. As you can see here on the maps, they are located in Beacon Hill, mid-block on Hancock Street between Cambridge Street and kind of where Mertle and Dern meet. And these are both existing lodging house buildings that are proposed to be renovated and changed to multi-family residential uses for affordable housing. Next slide, please. This is just some of the basic information. Again, previously lodging house uses. Interestingly, these were both actually originally part of the Archer Residences at 45 Temple Street, which is a much bigger project. And this is that project's affordable housing offsite obligation. That project was approved with various amendments from about 2016 to 2019. And Fenway, CDC or Fenway Forward, was recently designated developer for the offsite affordable component earlier this year. And they actually acquired this property in July. And so the proposal, which was again a genesis of that original larger project, it redeveloped both of these parcels into 15 affordable home ownership units, five units at 27 Hancock and 10 units at 29 Hancock. As you can see here, there's a various AMI's, various bedroom comp and unit types. In that at 27 Hancock, which you'll see in one minute on the plans, there is a small 350 square foot recapture of space in the lower level, which was previously uninhabitable. And the proposal is just add one of the studio units in that location. But there will be no change to either of the buildings, footprint size, etc. These are all internal changes to make the change from lodging house to affordable home ownership, which as you can imagine is much needed in Vick and Hill. And the last thing, if you go to the next slide, Madam, Mr. Ambassador, you could see just the refusal letters, exactly the same refusal letters both need zoning relief for floor area ratio. And for open space, just because of the change box you can see from the lodging house to the NFR multi family residential uses. If you go to the next slide, I'll toss it at Timothy Jones, he'll quickly go to 27 Hancock and then 29 Hancock, and then we'll be happy to answer any questions. So Tim, Tim, already. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the Board. So currently we're looking at 27 Hancock right now. If you were to, this is the center of the, the center building in the photo here. If we scroll down to the next sheet, I'll quickly go through these. This is, again, the first, the first left is the 27 Hancock on the image in the middle layers, the courtyard of 27 Hancock. And the photo at the top right hand corner is the basement of 27 Hancock. And that's where we're, we're revising, renovating to make into a 350 square foot studio. The image on the far right corner there is the, again, the courtyard of 27 Hancock and that's with our back to the building. That's Egress Bath that opens up to Joy Street. If we go to the next slide, please. These are the, this is the bottom. This is the floor plan of the 27 Hancock, the basement existing and what we're proposing. It's unfinished basement as we've seen from photos. And what's proposed at the image that the floor plan on the top is the 350 square foot studio apartment. To the back, the, the other area of the, the basement we're going to use is mechanical storage and trash and recycling areas noted here. Next image, please. First floor, so the 27 Hancock is four stories currently as 14 SROs and the doors, each floor is pretty much identical. The first floor existing with two SROs, what we're doing is converting that to SRO floor plan into a one bedroom unit. So that's the, sorry, that last image was four or two to four very, are our typical layouts for 27 Hancock. Next image is 29 Hancock. This is currently, again, as Nick mentioned, it uses 30 SROs in this building and the building is a three-dimensional building. In this building, this is the front of standing on Hancock Street face and building. Next image, please. To the right is the courtyard of 29 Hancock. And this, the extension that, that building to the left, there is the extension of 29 Hancock. And addition, it was added on it sometime. If we go to the next image, we're getting to our floor plans. The first floor is existing 29 that went into bottom. Again, two SROs and we're converting and on 29 we have two units. We're making convert into two SROs into two units as shown on the proposed layout at the top. We go to the next image, sorry, next slide. All right. So the second floor existing is on the bottom. We have nine SROs and we're converting again into two units. Next image, please. Next slide. Seven SROs, one, the third floor is the third to fifth floor, very typical layout for what's existing and also what we're proposing. So, I'm converting those SROs into again, two units. Thank you. That's. Yeah. Thank you very much. Thank you. I'm sure the mayor's office will speak to this, but we did meet with the Beacon Hills Civic Association on September 3rd. They did submit a letter of non-opposition. And both of these projects got planning recommendations of approval with providers. Thank you. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Yes. I mean, that's a sort of the. We have been right now has numerous intervals units. Are those units occupied? I do not mean so. That's me or or. I don't believe so, Mr. Lawrence. They are not. This is Sudith from Fenway forward. They're not occupied. They've been waiting for a long time. Thank you, Sudith. Do you know what happened with the lessons for where they are before? You are mute, sir. You're a mute, sir. We don't know. I think it's been a long time since we've had a past owner had had it waited for a long time for six or seven years. So I'm assuming the rest of the students have found housing elsewhere. Okay. Thank you, Sudith. Any other questions from the board? May I have public testimony? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board. The Department of Services, the 10th Mayor's Office has come back and in support of this proposal. There was a went the boss of planning and community process for this involving the mayor's office of housing. As you've heard, they worked very closely and extensively with the Beacon Hill Civic Association. Getting to a place where Beacon Hill felt comfortable to be a non-opposition to this proposal. Also securing support from local elected officials as well. I'm aware of any concerns presently with that. Like to reiterate our support for this proposal. Thank you. All right. Next we have from the council of Sam. Good morning, everyone. This is Smith and courage from Councilor Sharon Durkin's office. The Councilor's in support of this proposal given its affordability components. The Councilor has been involved with this project. Actually from the beginning helping secure out the fundings for this and is very excited about this project. Thanks so much. Thank you. Okay. Next we have John Deliver. Hi. I'm John Gallagher, resident of 17 Hancock Street. I'm a member of the Beacon Hill Civic Association of a board member. I'm also a board member of homes on Hancock. I'm a member of the 51C3 organization that supports affordable housing on Hancock street. We worked very closely with the city, our state representatives, and Fenway forward on this proposal and speaking on behalf of myself and many, many Hancock street residents, voicing our strong support for this proposal. Thank you. Thank you. All right. Thank you. Next we have Christina Mate. on Christina Madec here I would at 21 Hancock Street just if you know it down and I also remember hoax on Hancock and I just wanted to voice my support for our fine way forward in this proposal. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you and the last version is Stephen Donoban. Hi, good morning Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is Stephen Donovan. I worked for the city of Boston as a housing development officer in the mayor's office of housing and I'm here to say that the mayor's office of housing is in support of this affordable housing development. Thank you. Thank you. Any other response? No, Madam Chair, there are no additional court. Comments, motion. Well, Madam Chair, I think this is a good project and I'm going to use nonexistent we have been in creating very much and affordable homeowner's tribunals to make our promotion a favor with. You understand, Madam Chair? Second. Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Wewell. Yes. Mr. Lainon. Yes. Mr. Benaprozo. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Chair Volts, yes. The motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. The next case has been the firm that takes us to the case of B-O-A 1702915 with the address of 27 Wendover Street. If the applicant and the other members of the president would they please explain to the board? I am Mr. Stembridge. Good morning, Madam Chair, Madam Chair, Madam Chair, this is Mike Ross from the Law from the Prince of Bell, one international place. I'm here with the architect Peter Banko. The applicant is a part of a two person team one of which grew up in this very neighborhood. This is a vacant lot of 6,793 square feet within the Dorchester neighborhood zoning district. You can pause here if you'd like Mr. Ambassador. The original plan was to create 11 condominiums and it was reduced to nine condominiums after negotiations with the neighborhood association occurred. The project also proposes 13 parking spaces in order to not impact the on-street parking within this neighborhood. This page here shows the various types of buildings throughout the neighborhood including, actually the next page, if you would, to B-O-A. Including the double triple-deckers containing six or more units pending. We are being cited for the following variances, use FAR 1.6 and 0.5, stories three and a 2.5, side and rear setback and parking. There was the BPD, I memo points out that if the project were to adhere to these zoning provisions, it would create a project in discontinuity with its neighbors. Next slide please. This is a rendering on how the site borrows of the necular of the neighborhood and fits into it. Next slide please. There's another drawing from above. The project provides for a frame ramp for access to the front entrance. I also provide or tries to maximize access to the outside through the various units in the forms of truly epalopines as well as deaths. Next slide please. It's another view. That this rendering here shows how the property fits into the neighborhood from all sides and also how it's using various materials to break up the massing on all sides. Thank you. There's another view here. And here we can pause. So these are the three four plans that rise over the garage parking that is assisted by the natural slope of the topography. There's also bicycle room. You can see the lower right hand corner, four plan with the garage in the front corner of the building. And there are, as mentioned, nine units and the nine units are four one bedrooms. They range from 557 square feet to 629 square feet, three two bedrooms that range from 797 square feet to 1023 square feet and two three bedrooms that range from four or five, sorry, 14 to 55 square feet to 15, 17 square feet. Next slide please. This is a roof plan site plan showing how the four pans stack up. And slides 11 through 15, we can go through there. They're just basically, if you want to come back to them, these are four plans of dwell and help individually. So they're not just on one side. Sides 16, one more. Actually, one more if you would, Mr. Bachel. There you go. Sides 16 shows the front elevations as well as the materials that we're using, the left hand front elevations. The left is on the top, the front is on the bottom. And then these wood fiber fiber materials that you can see on the left is what the project will be clad in to create the breaking up. Next slide please. This just shows a section which also shows how the topography allows for lower level of parking. And then there's another section. And that's the deck that I have for you. I'll pause there and you just want to confirm the board that you should have received a letter of support from the Wendover Street Neighborhood Association. See if there are any questions. Thank you so much. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? Yes. As many of you have seen the BPD's recommendation, they made a note to the four kind of parking spaces at the rear. And I'm trying to understand through your plans on the site plan, you know, that you, I'm trying to see how it works and I'm having a hard time understanding how those four parking spaces at the rear is entering into the site. Yeah. If you go up and Peter, feel free to chime in if you'd like the architect. Yeah. And like whether it's necessary, you know, you have nine units. What's the total parking spaces that you have a lot of parking? Yeah, and we're still getting a violation for it. We're still below, but. You have, if you have 13 plus how many in yet? And there's nine. So that's like a 1.4 in a 1.5. So 13 total parking spaces. Right there is good. Yes, yes we do. If 13, okay. Number of other browser. This is the site right here. Number of other browser will show you that the four that the BPD was talking about in their memo, are they stick out in the back? I mean, you know, there is, it isn't still somewhat subterranean there. I mean, only slightly, but, you know, there's a lip. So, you know, there is that kind of vacant space there. You obviously could put anything in there. Yeah, they call it, they called it agreed. So that's why I'm trying to understand the sections. Yeah, if you go, maybe you go down, sorry Mr. Ambassador, there's a section that shows kind of, how it falls. Keep going about three more. One more, one more. Right there. So the right is the front is wind over street. And the cars will go straight through the center of the building down that ramp and really down through. And then those four cars stick out at the back there. It's, you know, the biography helps kind of make this so they were not going too far down into the ground. But yeah. Okay, that's very helpful. And would you be okay removing those four parking spaces? I mean, we will, if we're being required to, it's, you know, the neighborhood obviously wanted, it was a big issue that came up, especially on this street in this neighborhood. So we wanted to preserve that. We, by reducing from 11 to 9, we improved our ratio and we touted that before happy about that. We got close to compliant, but we will do what the board tells us to do. Yeah, no, that's great. I think I'm good. I think for next time, it would just be helpful. There was a survey clock plan that actually showed the boundaries of the building with the parking space. So that's the only draw that I'm missing. Yeah, I might. I don't have further questions. Thank you. My apologies. Any other questions from the board? Mr. Voss, can you briefly talk about how your project has been exposed to the IDP requirements? Yeah, this 17% of, I'm still 1.53. And if you round up, which you're required to do by article 79, you have to do two units. So two divided by nine makes this, I'm quite over 20% before the project. Cross out AMI, AMI level. It's over 17%. It's close to 20. No, I'm sorry. What is the 80% 60%? These are condos, so they are 80 and 100. Okay. All right, thank you, Mr. Voss. Thank you. Would that be a public testimony? Madam Chair, members of the board for the record, my name is Jeremy Bembery. I'm the doer just a community engagement specialist for the Office of Neighborhood Services. The applicant has completed the community process, which consists of an a-budders reading facilitation on May 29th, where a budders voice they can send from the proposal, lack of parking for the then proposed 11 units. And the size of the proposal being too large, a point that was voiced more than once. A budders for 11 units at the time was unacceptable, but did state six to eight units would be more welcome as they were also concerned with density, congestion, and maintenance of the property. Following the budders' meaning as the one I asked, they've changed his word, made, of reducing the number of units. Next, the proposals presented to the Wendell Restrieved Civil Association, where they voted and supported the proposal. To date our office, as we see, one letter of opposition, and a 35 signature petition and opposition should the proposal send to the board. Thank you for your time in the mayor's office of Neighborhood Services, and would like to defer to the board for their judgment. Hello, Madam Chair, members of board, and we're missing Council for Sales Actors. I also thank you on records for this proposal. Thank you. Madame Chair, there are no additional comments. Okay, was that my own motion? Madam Chair, I'd like to prefer a motion of approval with a provisal that the project undergoes BPD, design review, paying special attention to the parking spaces at the rear and to allow for additional open space. And that the applicant also undergoes a housing agreement with the mayor's office of housing. Is there a second? That's the end. Mr. Pumridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Wiel. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Mr. Arrasa. Yes. Ms. Turner. Yes. Chair Wiel's, yes. Motion carries. Right. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you. Next, we have case B-O-A, 1763939. With the address of 722-730-Shaman Avenue, if the applicant's and do they represent them a present, will they please explain? It is a slow average. But it is very small. Mr. Ambassador, if you could, if you could upgrade William Lee, who is our architect, from the analyst, that would be helpful. He's already. All right, thank you, you. Come on, Madam Chair, there was a board, Attorney Derek Small. I have a business address of 51 Dops and Row. And with me today, I ask part of our team is William Lee, who is the architect. I'm in Doke Enzalman, who is the project consultant and a mom-for-ruke of the society, of Islamic society in Boston. We're here today seeking relief for our project, our mixed-use project at 722-730-Shaman Avenue. And a relief we're seeking is to demo the existing property combined locks and erect a six-story mixed-use building with 38 residential units, a community center, retail space, offices, classrooms, places of worship, a restaurant with take-out, food pantry, and roof deck. Our zoning service here is a MFR. Our lot size is approximately 10,000, 600 square feet. And we have a couple of zoning violations that we are seeking relief for today, one of which is FAR. The required FAR here at this site is one, and we are proposing four building height, maximum number of stories are required as four. We are proposing six. The building height and feet, requirement is 45 feet, and we are proposing 69. Signyard setback violation has a requirement is this 10. We have approximately four. And so the units themselves, we are proposing nine one bedroom units, one team two bedroom units, three two three bedroom units, and 13 studios. Madam Chair, in conjunction with Ms. Officer Housing, this project is 100% affordable. And at this time, I'll turn it over to Wimley and he can go over the specifics of the plans. Thank you, Derek. Thank you, members of the board. Yeah, there we go. So this is a rendering from the intersection of Williams and Shamaav as you would approach the project. As a mixed use project, we've tried to express that on the exterior designs. The ground floor you see there is composed of public retail, restaurant cafe, and cultural spaces all blending together to activate the street front. The upper two floors you see with the double height windows is a mix of prayer, worship, community, and education spaces, along with some administrative offices for the organization. And then the remaining upper floors and building, as well as the right end for the down shaman, are dedicated to residential units. If you scroll down, we can get to, I think, several pages you can get to the site plan that'll keep going two more. Maybe there you go. That's the one. So site access is led from Shamaav. So bottom of the screen there. There are four parking spaces on site for the use of maintenance personnel and administrators of the organization. The remaining portion of the oddly shaped site is dedicated to landscaping and the ground form of the building. We've followed Boston complete streets and redesigning the street scape along Shamaav and Williams Ave, along with the curb extension as requested by the BPDA. The next slide should show up those, you can skip these. These are just some quick sections through the sidewalk. The basement level is dedicated primarily to food pantry storage. The organization does a lot of community outreach, so they've got a lot of square footage in the building dedicated to that. There's also maintenance spaces and, like, room. The next slide will show the ground floor, which is, again, composed primarily of restaurant, cafe, and public event spaces. The small portion to the right has a separate stair and elevator for the residential portion of the building. And then the next slide will show up the building. The left and right half are dedicated to two separate uses. The left being the community and organization. The right portion of the building is all residential units. The next floor is very similar in programmatic layout. Go to the next slide. And then if you scroll one more slide, the remaining upper floors of the building are 100% affordable residential units. That's the long and short of it. So, are there any questions I'm happy to dig into them? Thank you, Derek. Any questions from the board? Yes, manager. Looks like a good project. There's a small restaurant that's fairly recently opened there. Are there the ones that would be coming back into that space or would it be somewhere else? They're coming back into that space. On the right hand side of the project, there is or was a small part of that remaining or will that be gone? Wait, go ahead. Wait, were you eliminating that or was that staying? Yes. The parking lot that's there will be reduced. The parking lot will go towards the footprint of the new building. Some landscaping. There will be a stairwell that comes down. So, I would say the majority of the parking lot is being consumed by the building, but there will be a few spaces that are preserved. As you mentioned earlier, thank you. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Math for the testimony? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor, new and with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. It is time the Mayor is Office to go and record against support of this project. This went to a very productive community process led by the Boston Planning Department, involving engagement with residents, especially around the concern related to a tree. I think this will provide critical affordable housing to this area, as well as providing a place of worship for many residents of Roxbury. Overall, this has been a very productive process receiving great feedback. With that, we'll support this project, thank you. Thanks, Connor. Madam Chair, there are no additional comments. Can we have motion? Motion of approval. There are second. Is that correct? Mr. Stonebridge. Yes. Mr. Volencia. Yes. Does it mean well? Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Is it better browser? Yes. Oh no. Yes. Chair votes. Yes, the motion carries. The motion. Thank you, Madam Chair. Most of the board, have a good day. The next case has been performed. So that takes us to case B-O-A-174-095-7. With the address of 20 to 22 rural areas street, the applicant and the lawyer represent a present will they please the final case of the board? Yes, Mr. Secretary, good morning. Madam Chair, members of the board. Excuse me, my name is James Christopher. A six-eighths, six-hacket text with business address of 10-4-0 in the Green Tree Mass. The proposal for the flu in today is 20 to 22 rural areas street and do our chestnut. It is currently a two family house of a 4,500 square foot lot. We are proposing to construct a third story edition, raise the ridge height by about a foot, no changed occupancy, and add some additional of our 900 square feet, 900-71 square feet of living space to the third floor. We need relief in the lot areas that's efficient again, where 4,500 square feet in the 5,000 district, the FAR is excessive at 0.73. This is required to be 0.5. And the front side yards are pre-existing nonconforances, which are not changing with this project. So with that, I'll turn it over to the board and answer any questions. Thank you. Questions from the board? May I have public testimony? Good morning, Madam Chair. My name is Eva Jones, representing the mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services, regarding 20 to 22 rural areas street office diverse avoids which went on this matter. A community process was included distributing a community fire on 929-25, in which my office did receive five letters of support regarding the proposal. The Cedar Grove Civic Association will also read the proposal on 514-25, and voted to also support the proposal. At this time, the mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services differs of the boys' judgment on this matter. Thank you, everyone. Clear time and consideration. Well, Madam Chair, members of the board, and the board, and the committee of the council, and the council of the Council of the Office, are also like your own records for this proposal. Thank you. Madam Chair, there are no additional comments. Would that be a motion? Motion to propose. No, the second. Second. Mr. Stonebridge. Yes. Mr. Rods here. Yes. Mr. Wewell. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Mr. Peter Brasam. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. Motion carries. Thank you. Next, we have two companion cases. The first is case B-O-A. 168-596-0, with the address of 4-4-R Sherman Street. Along the down we have case B-O-A. 168-170-2024, with the address of 6-6-A Sherman Street. If the applicant and all they have represented are present, would they please explain to the board? Thank you, members of the board. My name is Angela Nosto, and I'm with my Weft-Garley. We live at 8 Sherman Street and Rosalindale. And we get a proposal for a dash 4 Sherman Street. Which is a new home, and a subdivision proposal from existing two family home located at 6-6-A Sherman Street. We have grown up in this neighborhood, and in a very fond of it. And we have children at the next door as well in at 6-on-6 Sherman Street. So we're proposing a two family home at 4-4 Sherman Street. This will be a stick-built home to 1.5-story tall. 22 feet wide by 70 feet long. The building style is a colonial, but it is a gable and duplex totaling 3,000 square feet. There will be a covered porch on the front and an open rear deck overlooking a backyard. The exterior would be side of the material, would be of the Heidi Plank composite, and the decking in here will also be of a composite material. Each unit will have lost reparking for two vehicles, very similar to other homes on the street. I understand the BRA may ask me to change that, and I'm not sure I'd be happy to do for them, but I was struck by an action to keep as much open space in the rear as possible. We have received some letters of support from neighbors as well as neighbors who have come by the home and voiced their support for us. So what I want to talk about here is there are two lots of vaults in this process, and they are pulled on for two family construction. And I recessed as the building was, combined they are over 15,000 square feet. The first one, A2 and 6 Sherman Street had 7,400 square feet, but after the subdivision were wind up with 8,576 square feet, the reason for the increase is because the rail of number six Sherman Street on the right side encroaches over the boundary as shown in the property. So when we went in for someone to walk to the rear of the subdivision was created and the additional wind was added to this lot. Also, number six Sherman Street is a very well built home with plenty of architectural characters, interior and indexed area. We have very four of the memories of the previous owner who was a wonderful man. We never were fortunate enough to meet his life, but we felt like we knew that we were a great friend of mine, and we were very proud of him. So allowing this house to remain on the street as opposed to tearing it down would mean so much to us. I'm not fond of tearing down homes because we erased the memory of the people who lived there. I'm working very diligently to avoid that in this case. Now, Sherman Street is a private role that has only three houses built on it on the left side of Sherman Street is the backyard of the residents who live on the second most street. So there was plenty of open space because there are only three houses on it. Other than a school drop off and pick up, there's very little congestion on the street. So building a two family home with parking should not create any congestion issues. Now, this is the hardship. I know variances require hardships. The hardship is that the existing house at number six Sherman Street encroaches over the boundary of number four Sherman Street. And because of this encroachment, a subdivision is required as well as several other variances. It is important to remember that I'd be able to build this house, this new home as a right, because I have over 15,000 square feet of land. But then I would have to tear down the existing house and build another house on that one, which would require much more construction on the street and inconvenience. I chose this method because it was the one with the least amount of work. The end result would be very welcome, welcomed residents to this neighborhood and an opportunity for family to live here. So we have some issues here on the street. The concerns discussed at the Abeddon's meeting was during heavy rainstorms, flooding, floods occur behind several of the homes on Hawthorn Street, Heathcoach Street, Poppeless Street, and Sherman Street. And in some cases, this water is coming right through the bulkhead of people's homes and flooding their basement. This is due to all the surrounding homes on this block, which are elevated higher and smoking range towards Hawthorn Street. During heavy rainstorms, when I look out my kitchen window, and look like you make a porn to my backyard, it's important to remember that the proposed house on number four Sherman Street does not have any flooding issues. But I am willing to address the flooding issues that is occurring downhill as part of my application. After that meeting, the Abeddon's meeting, my message City Council happened and told him I would be addressing the flooding issues by installing a flood water drain behind number six Sherman Street, tied to the Boston Water and Sewer drain located on Sherman Street, and installed a street drain as well. This would allow the rear yards to drain during heavy rains and prevent the water from reaching dangerous levels. I have reached out to City Council, Poppeless Office, after that Abeddon's meeting, and he was very happy to hear that I was willing to connect the flooding process to correct the flooding problems for the effective, effective residents and he would put me in touch with his staff member, Diane Gheon, Braunscher, who also reached out to the Boston Water and Sewer and came up with a preliminary plan for a flood water drain. We have 21 houses on our block, and all of the back yards pretty much bring towards number 69 Poppeless Street and six Sherman Street. So, let's go look at the why our flooding water height is rising. So, I would just like to sum it up this way. I know I'm asking for relief and variances to build a two family at number four Sherman Street, but I'm also willing to install much needed drainage infrastructure for the residents of Sherman Street, Poppeless Street, area. We all pay our taxes to live here, but we are not receiving any help from the Boston Water and Sewer in this matter, because they say it's a private property issue. Every year the water level rises a bit more than the year before, so I'm sure it's just a question of time if what things get much worse. This is an opportunity to correct a much needed problem in the same time create new housing that is much needed. I do hope I have explained this in a way that's easy to understand and reasonable to accept, and I'm certainly available for any questions that anyone may have in this matter. Thank you so much for your time. Thank you, and thank you for addressing, I think that was a main concern that has come up in feedback about the project. Are there any questions on the project? Can you just confirm how many existing parking spaces are in your front yard? Yes, we are showing four parking spaces, and the reason for that is because we're trying to keep the backyard area as open green space, and we did that hoping that our neighbors at number two show in street would appreciate that. We are not showing a garage back there as they did at number 10 and 12. He's called street for that very reason, so we're trying to make this project as easily to accept as possible. And that's why we're showing the parking on the front of the property as opposed to the bridge. Yes, I think I'm sorry, I'm not sure if you understood my question. Currently, how many parking spaces do you have in your front yard? Yes. Four? Okay, I don't have any further questions. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? May I have public testimony? Madam Chair, members of the board for the record, my name is Jeremy Vampire. I am the Rosland Documenting Engage and Specialist for the Office of Neighborhood Services. The applicant has completed the community process, which consisted of a very well-attended approach, meaning facilitated on April 23rd, where the blood is voiced opposition in concerns for the proposal. The majority of the vote is voiced opposition to the proposal to flooding. Flooding was the main theme of the opposition, but other concerns such as fire god's syntax are not enough providing enough space between properties and concerns that were removed when lost in current space. Again, the major theme of the opposition was deep flooding. Our voters continued to voice the concerns for the flooding segment, saying that the water cannot drain into the yards, fun, and back flood when cleaning. Next, the component presented to West Village Neighborhood Association, where they voted in opposition to the proposal, maintaining the flooding concern from their voters. To date, our office has received four letters of opposition, one from the civic, one from the brother, and two letters from City officials, councilors Henry Santana and Eric Murphy, as well as a 62 signature position of opposition. Excuse me, petition of opposition. In such a thing, a 55 of voters signatures and seven non-unbothers from a voter street. Thank you for your time, and there's office of neighborhood services, but I'd like to defer to the vote for the intro. Thank you. We tell a person, a island guy, can you please admit yourself? Yes, thank you very much, Board. My name is Alan Wright. I'm a longtime resident of Brasindale. I'm also on the board of the West Village Neighborhood Association, and was a attendant at the dub of the VNN meeting in which Angelo presented. I just have a question, Angelo. At that neighborhood association meeting, I ask you about your plans for the numerous during the tour of trees at the back of the property, which I had noted had been marked with some white markers, and I wanted to know what you intended to do with them. I don't remember you giving a clear answer, including us to why they were marked, though you did comment that falling tree branches kill people all the time. Thank you. Is there a position that you're also taking? Well, I'm asking him a question. What is his plan for those trees? Okay, thank you. Any other raised hands? No, Madam Chair. I know they should not comment. Thank you. Sorry. There's not the connection. Then? A position that would be helpful. Yes, my position is an opposition to this bill. My name, Madam Chair, is Deborah Allen. I live at Two Sherman Street with me on this meeting is Andrew Sabraff, my partner, and Carol Gracia, our neighbor at Two Sherman Street. We are vehemently opposed to this. Our home sits next to where this proposed bill would take place, we're concerned for our foundation of our home, given the volume of water that sits below because we're because of all the issues we've had with flooding on this location. We are concerned about our foundation. We're concerned about flooding in general. We are also very concerned about privacy. This home would literally be sitting on our home, and that's very unpleasant and uncomfortable. And lastly, I'd like to bring up insurance. When does it become that the insurance company's deem us uninterpreted here because we continue to flood? Mr. Mustow has recommended some remediation efforts in tying in the city. As a private way, that would mean I would need to incur the cost of that unless he says he'll pay for all of it. But we do not have the infrastructure on Sherman Street for any of this type of remediation to be effective. Secondly, on Hawthorn Street, they've been told by the Boston Water Group. There is no ability for them to tie into the infrastructure because the capacity just isn't there. So while we may bring up tying into the city, there is no capacity for the water to be diverted. Thank you, Mr. Starrer. We have several other reasons if you can ask information to your position. Next week, we have Nora Basson. Good morning, good morning Madam Chair and the Board. Good morning, my name is Nora Basson, and I have been a homeowner at 73 Hawthorn Street since 1999. I am here today to respectfully voice my opposition to propose to family home at 4-6 Sherman Street. One of my biggest concerns is the severe flooding that already affects the backyards and basements of several homes in that area, including mine. Over the years, the problem has gotten significantly worse. After major rainfall has my added and others become completely saturated with water, routinely collect some floods into our basements. In fact, I had to strip my entire basement down to the suds after it flooded, and I still have not been able to fix it due to me getting water in my basement even after having a French train point in my foundation over 15 years ago. For a provenness to family home would make matters worse, add another large structure along with more pavement, drainage redirection, and foundation displacement will increase, will increase run-up and leave existing homes like mine even more vulnerable. It is not just a matter of inconvenience, it is about protecting the integrity of our homes and preventing further property damage. We invested decades into maintaining our homes and community, but simply asking that new projects not come at the expense of those who have already been living in managing worse and further conditions. Thank you very much. Thank you. Next we have Shirley Transome. Shirley, if you can... You are on mute. You did great. Hi. Excuse me? Yes. Hi. I'm a little confused by the list of letters that you got. It sounds like you may not have gotten our letter which we sent in on Friday afternoon, both from the Sherman Street Conservancy and also from myself and Emilie by... I just sounded like not as many letters as I was expecting to hear, but opposition. I don't know if you can check to make sure you have it on record or if I... In the meantime, can you please state your position? Yes, I am opposed to the bill. I'm very concerned about... I appreciate that the moose does have looked into doing mediation, and I would like to know that those plans are realistic. Saying that they're going to do it is different than it being a realistic plan, as mentioned by Deb, or maybe it was... Whoever was mentioned that the drainage on Hawthorne is not adequate, I'd like to know that whatever their plan is is realistic. As I've been living here since 1998, and I've watched as the flooding has gotten worse and worse, I would like also to point out in one of the videos that Deb Allen and Andy Asperer sent in regarding some flooding that happened in June. That was after a day of moderate rain. If you look in that video, there's a white fence there, and you can see a high water line that's several feet high. It's not a small amount of water, it's an enormous amount of water, it's sitting over a floodplain. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, there are two more people. Please be brief and have the information. Jackie, can you speak and make sure to? My name is Jackie Galicia. I'm a resident at 46 Sikomar on the corner of Sikomar on Hawthorne, about a block away from the proposed project. I am very much opposed to this project for a number of reasons, and I think my neighbors have stated it well. The biggest concern that I have is around flooding. My house has flooded twice in the 20 years that I've lived here, and I consider myself lucky that it's only happened twice and as Amelia and Shirley just said, when our house has flooded, it's not just a little bit of water. It's like bailing us out with buckets and pumps. So there's a big flooding concern that I have. I'm also concerned that this project is too big for the space, and I'm concerned about how that's going to look and whether it will fit with the neighborhood and the peaceful and calm feeling that we have here most of the time in our neighborhood. Finally, the musters came as was described earlier. They came to two meetings. They presented the project. They took questions. I really appreciated it, but I didn't see them come back with the plans for what will be done. The last person is Deborah. Please unmute yourself. My name is Deborah Dawson, and I reside at 69 Hawthorn Street. Our biggest concern is the severe flooding. We've lived here for 52 years, and the flooding is just getting worse. It's not just the rainwater or the water coming in from our basement door. It's also coming up from us on hold. We have an automatic pump in the sun. Thank you. I think we understand the flooding issue. Is there a lot to let the last person speak? If it's about flooding, just state that in your opposition. Marko? Marko? Mark Sinki? Actually, it's Lubermeer Haida. It's the same residence. The same building at 1828. Is that a place to live? Yes. Are you in a position? I'm the co-owner of the property on 1828. His coast street lived there since 1973, so it's over half a century. This area in my backyard is about the lowest, I think, area I'm called the boroughs to the property. I have put in a great deal of effort and money into fixing problems connected with the flooding, which of course is part of the nature because of the low lying ground, but also it is exacerbated every time that there is a rain. I would also add to what other people have said about the flooding problem and the expense and the inconvenience that we have children. This is a play area and whenever there is flooding, as I say exacerbated by building and construction. Before I get this part, the children are deprived and are an injurer because of the pond life area that is created for weeks on our property. So I'm in opposition very to this proposal. Thank you. May I reply? Yes, this would be your opportunity briefly. I won't take long. Just our race. Thank you. I would like to make sure you reply to my neighbor, Deb Allen. I am willing to incur the cost of this job. So this flood water drain that's being installed behind six Sherman Street that's going to reduce the water level for all of these people who live around this area. Don't have to worry about the cost of it. I'm willing to accept that cost and I would link it to this permit. And as far as Sherman Street itself, it's important to remember we get all the water from Augustus Avenue that comes down Sherman Street because of the speed of the water that hits block well. I would be installing a manhole in Sherman Street for drainage just for the Sherman Street water. So I'm installing two systems here, one Sherman Street and then one behind number six Sherman Street. And the pipe I've been told by John Sullivan had the Boston Water and Saw that there's an existing pipe on Sherman Street just for rainwater. It's not for sewage or anything else that we would be able to tie into that pipe on Sherman Street through Diane Bonsha. So once again, I feel bad for my neighbors in this water issue, but this has been going on for probably a hundred years since this neighborhood was designed. And nobody has stepped up and corrected it. So I'm here and I'm asking for what for my project. And in return, I'm willing to address this issue, not just me. It has plans have to be designed and submitted, but I'll do everything within my power to correct this one problem. So all these neighbors can relax in the future when we do have rainstorms. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? No, but I'm deviled. I'd like to speak as well. I'm sorry. This is the time for the board. Any questions from the board? Hearing none. Is there a motion? Yes. I'm going to put a motion forward. So I guess you're kind of a companion case. So I like to put forward the motion first for six six eight Sherman Street to approve the property line division. So that's going to be a motion for for that. And then for the four Sherman Street to and a half story to unit townhouse proposal. I'd like to prefer a motion with two provisels, a motion of approval with two provisels. One being that the project undergoes BPD a designed site plan and review to specify specifically, permeable surfaces for the parking aisle and parking on six Sherman. And to remove the other front yard park and on six Sherman. So that is to address some of the potential blockage of water kind of penetration to the soil. The other the other proviso is that the applicant needs to submit civil engineering drawings to propose a storm water management system. Under property that would not exaggerate the water conditions locally in the site. And then this is then a recommendation that the applicant and the civil engineer work with lots of water sewer to try to bring forth the concerns of the block. But that should not necessarily address that should not necessarily kind of block the applicant's fourth project in regards to building the two the two two and a half story to unit townhouses on the property. Okay, that was lengthy. Yeah, I mean, so I can I can summarize it right so the big idea is on the being said plan. Okay, got it. Great. Is there a second? Okay, Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Blatziya. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Yes. Mr. Turner. No. Chair votes. Yes. The motion carries. Thank you. Thank you so much. Next we have case B.O.A. 173 2976 with the address of 1082 Commonwealth Avenue. If the applicant can do it, represent a repressor. Would they please explain the case to the board? Yes. Thank you, Mr. Stembridge. Good morning. Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is Justin Burns. I'm an attorney with Pogenean, Norton Business, Address, Tens, Forbes, Road, Braindrie, Massachusetts. I'm here on behalf of the proponent for 1082 Commonwealth Ave. This is a fairly simple project. So the description will be brief 1082 Commonwealth Ave. This is currently a mixed-use building with 40 residential units and one garden level commercial unit, which is currently vacant. The new residential unit would be a two-bedroom one bathroom unit and have approximately 634 square feet of living space. The unit in its current commercial form has an entrance up on the corner of Commonwealth and Naples with stairs leading down to its doors. This entrance would be replaced with the window and that would be the extent of the external work to be done for this project. All of the work would be strictly internal. And the unit will be accessed as all the other garden level residential units are through the communal residential entrance. And that's about it. A very simple project. The developer feels it would be beneficial takes commercial unit, which is a bit out of place given this location in the building and the use of the building around it. And it's been turned over multiple times in the past few years and we feel that turning it into a residential opportunity would be a greater use for the surrounding community. With that, I'm happy to answer any questions. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Madam Chair, I have a question for Mr. Hampton if he's on. Are you on Mr. Hampton? Thank you. My questions mainly are on the recommendation. I see that the planning department has recommended design review. And I'm just questioning whether the scope of work rises to that level since I think the applicant just said it's only really a window that would impact the external changes. I'm just wondering if the staff is going to be able to move to the next level. I'm just wondering if the staff is going to be able to move to the next level. I'm just wondering if the staff is going to move to the next level. I'm just wondering if the staff is going to move to the next level. Madam Chair, I have a question for you. Good morning, Madam Chair and board members. Cee Johnson with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This applicant completed ONS's community process. Our office hosted in a butters meeting on July 28th of this year at which no concerned will raise the applicant met with the Austin Civic Association which has submitted a letter in support of this application. With that back on our office to first judgment to the board. Thank you. Madam Chair, there are no additional comments. Okay, we have a motion. Motion of approval with planning department design review. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Sambridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Is we well? Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Is Benaparzo. Yes. Mr. Manau. Yes. Chair, motion carries. Thank you very much. Next, we have case B08176-6156 with the address of 69 Kilmanak Street. This is an article 80 case. It's the applicant and we were the representative of a president. Would that be explained to the board? Good morning, Madam Chair. I'm just the board for the record. My name is Kevin Goggan-Polson and I'm sure it's with an office located at one post office square. I'm appearing today on behalf of the applicant 69 Kilmanak Street properties on LC. The applicant is an affiliate of Samuel's and associates. This project also involves a component for Boston Children's Hospital. We've got members of both teams as well as the group that worked on this. Can't answer any questions at the end once I've had an opportunity to go through our slide. Just for wider context, this project includes two components. Component 1 provides 45 patient family housing units for Boston Children's Hospital. Component 2 provides approximately 44 multifamily units, including eight on-site affordable units. For site context, as you can see here, 69 Kilmanak Street is located in the Fenway neighborhood, Proximate to the Boston Children's Hospital campus. Next slide, the existing conditions. Here you see there is a vacant single-story building previously used for retail and as a temporary construction office with surface parking located to the rear. Next slide, please. As noted at the beginning, this project was recently approved by the BPDA. I was in notice of project change that was approved by the board on February 13th, 2025. Thank you for coming back to me on that slide. Thank you very much. As I noted, this is a notice of project change. There was a previously approved program contemplated eight-story 77-unit residential building with only three affordable units. As I mentioned earlier, this is a two component project that has institutional patient family housing. These units allow parents and families of children undergoing care at Boston Children's Hospital to come from staying at housing near the hospital during a very difficult time in these folks lives. Component 2, as we said, 44 units was a dental including the eight on-site affordable, which is a name from the previously approved program. This project incorporates pass-and-house design in an all-electric building system. And the zoning relief requested here is actually less than what was less or similar to the zoning relief previously granted for the prior program. Next slide, please. Here, you see the site plan. This is a corner lot located at the corner of Kilmardock Street and Queens Verix Street. That's a reason for some of the zoning relief that we had to request for this project. As you can see, the two components component 1 and component 2 component 2 is on the left. component 1 is on the right. You can see the red line that divides those. You can also see on the plan east along Kilmardock Street. There's an improvement for the MBTA bus stop that's there as well. You can see the little bump out that wrote accessibility to that bus stop. Next slide, please. Here, we just show some typical floor plans on the left hand side. You'll see typical floor plans for the first through 6 floor. The left hand side, you see component 2, right hand side component 1. And then on the right hand side, where you see the 7th and 8th floor, you just see for component 2 there. This is the only one that has the 7th and 8th floor. Next slide, please. Here's a rendering. This is the view from the corner of Kilmardock and Queensbury Street. As you can see here, the project is consistent with the scale of the neighboring buildings and the design is keeping with the character of the neighborhood. Next slide, please. And then just to touch on some of the project's benefits. The streetscape improvements include new street trees, new sidewalks with enhanced accessibility, landscaping and bike racks, transportation. There will be no on-site parking provided here. The enhancements of the MBTA bus stop 55 that we discussed and then $75,000 a blue bike contribution. With housing and social, as noted, there's the 8 on-site affordable units. This will also provide additional housing stock to Boston's under supplied market and permanent temporary jobs creation. On the sustainability and resiliency side, pass-to-house design, all electric and smart utilities compliance. At this point, we're happy to take any questions that the board may have about the project. Questions from the board? Now, a public customary? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor Newman with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. At this time, the Mayor's Office is referred to the judge from this board. There's some background for each of the community process that's went through a Boston planning. But community process involving public meetings and engagement with the community. They receive support from the Fenway Civic Association, which commended this proposal adding affordable units to the neighborhood, as well as providing an opportunity for the families and children. Receiving care at Boston Children's Hospital, a place for respite. They also noted the changes where they shrunk the FAR and the height, while also increasing the affordability that was being pursued. We're unaware of any concerns presently, but that will reiterate your deferring to the board. Thank you. Okay, next, we have some courage please. Hi, Bill, I'm Samantha Kyrsch from Councilor Sharon Jerkens office. The Councilor is in support of this proposal. She's specifically excited about the housing aspect of this board and the project. Thanks so much. Thank you. Next, we have a Christian Simonelli. The board, Madam Chair, members of the board, Christian Seminelli, Gloucester Groundwater Trust, and we have both a cheek card letters from the applicant. Thank you. We have Evonita Grossam. Hello, my name is Emily D'Rosa. I'm a senior project manager in the development review division. The planning department, this project before you was approved by the BPA board on February 13, 2025. The project underwent an appropriate article 80 review for its size of impact, which included extensive collaboration with the planning department councilor's office and the community. Thank you. We don't have additional comments. Is there a motion? I'm sure it'll make a motion of up to 11. There's a second? There. Just a minute. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Is we well? Yes. Mr. Lainon. Yes. Is it better browser? Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Chair votes yes. The motion carries. Thank you, ma'am. Chair members of the board. Have a good day. Thank you. Madam, the deri. We reached the 11 o'clock. I will ask you this point if there are any request for withdrawals or deferrals from the 11 o'clock contract. If the board is done, then we will move on to case BLA 176 293 with the address of 17 libraries street. If the applicant can or the representative of the president, will they explain the case of board? Thank you, Mr. Stembridge. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you. Madam, the board. Turning Jeff Trego with Trego and Toscano with the business address of 11 Beacon Street here on behalf of the applicant Dan Yusiv. And we also have Eric Zacherson from Context who is the architect for the proposal today. What you are looking at in this first slide is a rendering of the proposed project. It is for a new three-story three-unit residential building with three exterior parking spaces. And that will be accessed through an existing driveway curb cut. It will serve as a shared driveway with 15 Bradbury. My client owns that, a budding building at 15 Bradbury. And we are creating three spaces in the rear for 17. And then we have a garage in the back of 15 that will house two additional spaces. If we can go to the next slide, please. On the left is a little hard to see, but there we go. Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. That's just an area of view of the housing stock. This particular area is a 3F 4000 square foot area, which is exactly why we felt that a three-unit building would create housing, but also fit the context of this mixed-use area. You can see the building directly to the left of us is an existing three-unit building at 19 Bradbury. And then across the street you can see the mix of housing of three units in condo buildings across the street. We can go to the next slide, please. The existing conditions, it's a complete asphalt open space lot right now. It's been like that for years. My client acquired it and felt that creating residential housing was the best fit, but also something that fit within the context of the existing buildings. And in the recommendation of approval from the BPDA, they actually state the plan or that this particular project furthers the goals for the Austin Brighton needs assessment to create housing and underutilize lots, but housing that actually fits the context of the neighborhood, which we feel this does. If we go to the next slide, please. Now we just get into the plans and you can go to the next slide, Mr. Ambassador. These are all proposed three bedroom units, 1,320 square foot. As I mentioned, they would have off of that driveway. If we could stay in the slide for a moment, you can see there's the driveways 10 foot, 2 inches. And when we go into the back, we actually wanted to accommodate the neighborhood for some parking, but also wanted to create green space where this lot has none right now. So in the front, we're putting that whole green area that the rendering shown, we're actually going to be planting two trees in front and a new tree in back. We also have a whole section in the back. There's going to be a paved area for a pavio for the first floor, then all of the other area on the back will have green space as well. So we tried to accommodate open space that's usable, but also to accommodate parking to take cars off the street. So we can go through the plans too. The layout of the building is very consistent, so with neighboring parcels. So the violations that were mentioned, one off street parking, so 1.75 would be required. But we're actually creating three and one for one. We felt was fair. We're also creating that green space. We also got sighted for a lot with in frontage, but this is completely typical of the two lots next to us. We're lining up very similarly with some green space in front. And then our FAR was allowed to point 8 rub 1.1, which is slightly over, but it was actually mentioned in the VPA context that all of most of the lots in this area do not conform with FAR. And the ones right next are the three families of 1.28, so we're actually smaller than that one and many of the other buildings on the streets. We really tried to conform with the zoning as best as we could. We also did not have a roof deck on the building, but we did put rare decks for just some additional space for the second and third floor neighbors. With that, and just want to mention, we started out. We had asked the neighbors had asked if we were going to do rent or condo. And we switched to a condo development based on the feedback that we had heard with that. I can pause to answer any questions. Any questions from the board? Hearing none, I'll take part in the testimony. Good morning, Madam Chair and board members. See Johnson with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. This petitioner has completed the ONS community process. Our office hosted a butter's meeting on July 30th of this year, which direct a butter's raised concerns about road and issues on the parcel, a de restriction effect and what could be built on the parcel. We also have a report on the concerns regarding density and concerns about usable open space. The proposal was presented to the All-Conservative Association, which has submitted a letter of support to the board. Our office has also received one letter of opposition that has been forwarded to the board. Without background, we defer judgment to the board. Thank you. Thank you. Next week, Anthony Ditzeldo. Good morning, Madam Chair and members of the board. Tony Ditzeldo, we're representing the Austin Civic Association. We would like to go on record and support one of the reiterate that turning Drago's comment about the neighborhood interest in having these as home ownership opportunities with a 13% on a occupancy rate. One of the lowest in the city, we strongly encourage the proponent to pursue that avenue and to construct three home ownership opportunities. Thank you. Thank you. Next week, I'm wearing a tree. Hello, this is Norman Praethe. I'm from the Office of the Office of the National Security Council. I'm going to support this project with the understanding that this really had a mini-unproject in it that the product will use for the repeaters in their driveway. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, we have no additional comments. That be our motion. Before the motion of approval with the provisos that plans are submitted to planning, we're designed to review to ensure the new building facade aligns with the current buildings on the Blackberry Street and ensure that parking meets maneuverability requirements. Second, back in. Mrs. Fenbridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Wewell. Yes. Mr. Lungon. Yes. Ms. Barbrazo. Yes. Ms. Turner. Yes. What's just motion carries. Thank you very much. Next, we'll move on to the hearing schedule for 11 a.m. Again, we'll ask if there are any requests for withdrawals or defros from this doctrine. And with that, we'll move on to case B.O.A. 173-0672 with the adios of two-century health place. If the applicants and the one that represent a little brother will they please fund the case to the board. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. Nick Landry from DRT were the architects of the project and I believe that Andrew Brunner is also on the call. I'm not sure if he's been elevated to a panelist. So we're here. Oh, great. Thank you. So we're here today to present projects at Andy's home on Beacon Hill at two-century health place. We're looking to increase the living space on the third floor by adding a dormer to rear and then also a headhouse in a roof deck. We can go to the next slide please. So this is renovations triggered two violations. FAR violation and roof stop, our rooftop restriction for the roof deck and the headhouse. We are currently at an FAR of 2.8 and with this renovation will be an FAR of 3.0. We're adding about 170-70 square feet in total. It's about 62 square feet on the third floor with that rear dormer addition and 115 square feet at the headhouse on the roof deck. The reason for the renovation, the runners have been at this home for six years. They currently have three children and they intend to stay here in this additional space as it is helping their family grow in place. If we go to the next slide please. The third floor is a walk-in street off of the roof. You can see on the left is where the third house is. It says side-left and right-hand side. That's the roof. The right-hand side of the proposed plan shows the roof deck and the new roof deck and the small headhouse. This is a view looking down from the left-hand side. You can see that red outline is our building. You won't be able to see this roof deck or the headhouse or the rear dormer from any public street. The view on the right-hand side is from Bill and Street. You're looking up the hill and we're kind of behind the brick building on the right-hand side. Because of that, you can help historic deeming. We didn't need to go through it because we can't see it from public street. We did have a butter meeting and a civic meeting, both of which went very well. If we can go to the next slide. We had a room comment that came back from one of the rear neighbors on the butter meeting. We originally had a larger darker roof structure. We've added this glass to it because they were hoping to make the whole structure feel a little bit more light. That's why you might see this skylight in this view, wasn't in the original design that was submitted for Bruno. The headhouse is the same. You can see that headhouse is kind of toward the back and then there's a deck that surrounds it. The dormers are on the top of the page on the rear as well. Next slide, please. So today it's a three-story house without a roof deck. And we're proposing to add that headhouse toward the rear, which is about 115 square feet. We're proposing to take a door on the rear of the property as well to add some more square feet to the living area to the third floor. We can go to the next step, please. So those of you looking head on, if you're standing in the alley, it's not a view that you can ever, but I think you can see just because of the elevation. You can see that the roof deck in the headhouse. If you're actually standing at ground level looking up, you won't be able to see the headhouse or the roof deck or set back far enough that you won't be able to see. You're going to like slide this. This is a view from the rear. So again, we had added that more of that glass of the roof to try to lighten the feel of the headhouse for the neighbor of the rear. You go to the next side, please. So you can see we have where the house in the middle there with the headhouse and the roof deck. There's already an existing roof deck to our right and several other roof decks in the area. It's very up on the hill. And we're proposing all the materials will be matching what's there today. So we'll be matching existing face for Dan Clark, Greg and Slayer roofs. And I think that's the end of the presentation through the main questions and not the triple back. Thank you. Questions from the board. Here in the main public testimony. Madam Chair and board members, see Johnson with the mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This applicant has completed the ONS community process. Our office hosted an abouters meeting on July 8th at which no concerns were raised. The Beacon Hill Civic Association is in non opposition to this application. That background on office deferred judgment to the board. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Smith with Councillor Durkins Office, the councillors and support of this proposal. She's been in contact with the butters to this project. And with the H.C.A.s comments in mind, she would like to go and support. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, the other additional comments. Thank you. Madam Chair, would that be their motion? Madam Chair, would that be their motion? Madam Chair, would that be their motion? Madam Chair, would that be their motion? Madam Chair, would that be their motion? Madam Chair, would that be their motion? Madam Chair, would that be their motion? Madam Chair, would that be their motion? Madam Chair, would that be their motion? Madam Chair, would that be their motion? Madam Chair, would that be their motion? Madam Chair, would that be their motion? Madam Chair, would that be their motion? Madam Chair, would that be their motion? Madam Chair, would that be their motion? Madam Chair, would that be their motion? Madam Chair, would that be their motion? Madam Chair, would that be their motion? Madam Chair, would that be their motion? As we will. Yes. Mr. Lina. Yes. Mr. Berraza. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Chair, would that be their motion? Yes. The motion carries. Good luck. Thank you very much. Next, we have case B.O.A. 17619-01. With the address of 19 to 21 West Third Street. This is also an article 80 case. If the applicant and whether represent a present, would they please the applicant case through B.O.? Yes. Thank you, Mr. Stembridge. Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the Board. My name is George Morancy. I'm an attorney with the business address of 350 West Broadway in South Boston. I represent Cedarwood Development and its principals, David Winick and Dave Mateo. Also here today is the project architect Shane Losi. The project site is approximately 7,752 square feet in size located at 19-21 West Third Street in South Boston. The site is currently the location of a two-story commercial office building with surface parking and is bounded by West Third Street to the north, A Street to the east, at the streets of the south. The proposed project is located at approximately 500 feet from Broadway Station on the MBTA's red line. As well as the number 9 and number 11 bus finds on West Broadway. The proposed project consists of a new six-story mixed-use building to contain 35 residential condominium units for sale, including 17% income restricted units pursuant to Article 79, inclusionary zoning requirements. There will also be a ground floor commercial unit of approximately 821 square feet. Also the ground level will host a garage parking for up to 10 vehicles as well as long-term secure storage for 35 bicycles and eight short-term covered in secure visitor-by-parking spaces within, not covered, but parking spaces within the public right of way. Shane Losi is the architect. He'll walk the board through the architectural drawings in a moment. I will speak to the zoning and the requested zoning relief. The site is located in the south-bossed neighborhood zoning district within an MFRLS multi-family residential local service zoning sub-district under Article 68. There's a violation for insufficient lot size with the additional units over the maximum one supported by a minimum 5,000 square foot lot. Under current zoning 35 units would require an unbelievably large 39,000 square foot lot. This does not reflect the price of density in this area of south-bossed, while the proposed building is contextually appropriate in this mid-to-identity neighborhood. The relief is required for the side in regard to setbacks. Opposed building would run side-lot line to side-lot line, which is typical for this area, with respect to the rear yard setback violation. It should be noted that this is a block through lot, and the rear lot line is actually a front lot line on Athens Street, where the modal alignment is being met. There's a violation for excessive floor area ratio, allowed FAR in this area, is a MIGER 1.5, while the proposed FAR, which again is contextually appropriate, is 4.6 A. There are violations for insufficient parking and loading, as well as for the design of the 10 proposed off-street parking spaces. At least 42 spaces would be required here by zoning. This site is an approximately 5-minute walk from the Broadway Red Line Station, as well as the many retail and commercial offerings of West Broadway. This location has a walk score of 94, a transit score of 88, and a bike score of 72. In terms of parking design, all of the spaces are 18-feet length rather than 20. The one space is 8-feet wide, rather than 8.5 feet wide, but five of them are over 10 feet wide. While the zoning code still contains the requirement, a dedicated loading base, typically not required by the city, for a building of this size. The proposal... I'm sorry, I didn't... The proposed project seeks zoning relief for exceeding maximum building height, which is only 35 feet in the relevant MFR-less sub-district. This proposed six-story height is truly appropriate in this area, where many other buildings in the same zoning sub-district range from five or six stories with a couple of being over 10 stories. Finally, before I turn it over to Shane Losey, a bit more detail on inclusionary zoning. As I mentioned, this is a condominium unit project. The project will provide six IZ units, approximately 17.14% of the total number of units, and 17.33% of the residential square footage. The three IZ units will be made available for households with incomes greater than 80%, but not more than 100% AMI. If there are no questions on the zoning, I would like to turn it over to Shane Losey to quickly take the boards for the architectural drawings. One chairman was awarded a Shane Losey with 1507 architects and a replaceable development or a placebo group. Here we have the existing site plan. We kind of see the two-story building that George discussed to the right of the line. It takes up, you know, the small percentage of the line now, the rest is all asphalt all the way from the west end street back to Athens Street. You can see the foretrial, the shaped line. Athens Street is on an hour and the summit side of this page next slide please. Here we have the group who is building on the same line as you can see in the graph. George is the majority of the line at the rear. We do step back 15 feet, I believe, that he's second floor to get a little space in the back, which is a similar situation as the building in front of the historic corner of A and Athens. Next slide please. This is just a runner up the exit front. We'll get back to that in a minute. Next slide. Sorry, we have just location wise. You can see the site in the orange or chop shape. West third is to the northeast Athens, to the southwest. A street is running diagonally to the southeast on this. You can kind of see the angle of the site where west third and west second kind of come together at that point that you can see at the top of the page. Also, the T logo represents Broadway station. You can see the proximity to the site. So, west Broadway months at that bottom angle from the T logo to the bottom page. Next slide please. Just some more context from aerial views. You can kind of see the building to ground the site. There's newer buildings right across the street from west third. You can see that six-story building that was recently completed. There's no one in zero Athens to the right of our site in this picture. And then the Broadway project behind us is part of the street from Athens, a similar scale to us. It is a building being built at the corner of a west third to the left of our site in this five. It's another five stories. Just go down please. I did just some more context. Similar to different views. You see the July project across to the left of our site here. Here we have the existing street context, street photos. So, we have on the top left the existing front elevation along west third where we see the existing two-story building of brick. Building with the white stripe through the middle of it. That's the existing building on the parcel to the right behind the fence is the existing parking lot. Once back to Athens on the top right we just have the same view from the corner of west third and east three. We can back as a three-family style building next to us. And then right now the constructed a five-story building to the left of that white building that's here now. On the bottom you see that again from the other direction from the corner of west second and west third looking back at the site. You can see the white stripe are building to the picture. Next slide. Here we have the elevation line happens, the existing sort of now piece that runs back to Athens. The building to our right sits four stories. The street front and then there's a step back to the story. You can kind of see that the angle here. And then again this more context talk right there is down Athens further looking back towards the A-street and we see that this story of the building next to us. You can kind of see the six-story building in the background that was recently completed across the street. On the left third we scroll down to the bottom of the page we have the view from just a little bit from A and Athens looking back to the site which is at the end of the blueish straight building. Next slide please. You have just seen it in the middle of the photo again showing that that site line with a large parking lot that's existing on the site. The other thing is the one people group one partner is just so that's the existing two-story building on the site. Next slide please. Just highlighting that. Next slide. Here is a diagrammatic site plan. So right now is go streets based on the site. So we're going to have street trees along the third street. And then you can kind of see how we are through law to Athens on the left of the sheet. The driveway accessing the parking will be off the back of Athens which is sort of a pseudo valley as it is to the buildings that are there now. So we're building in all the curb cuts along with street to create another space to parking there on street. And then we also proposing planters at the street level along the third that will be in set into the storefront that we have along that street. Next slide please. We just have some renderings of the proposal. We can come back to this in a minute. We can enter some more. So we see the building in context with the other buildings of six stories. Next slide. So now this building that we choose is next slide. Again, we went over the site plan so we can move on to the next slide. I'm just going to move to the lower spaces on the setbacks at the first floor. So the darker orange is the six story portion of a letter. Orange is the one story pieces at gravel mix life. If you have the floor plans on the left, the garage plan at street level with the 10 parking spaces accessed off of Athens Street at the back of the building at the front along west third street. We have a small commercial space. We have the building entry space for 35 by spaces. Then access for track firm and utilities on the far left. Then we move to the second floor. You see the layout which is pretty typical for the next four stories. The fifth story has changed a little bit but it's the seven units that take up the majority of the site in this sort of similar layout. Next slide. Here we have the other floor. This is the sixth floor where we have a step back of the day along Athens Street because that flat ends out. Then we have the roof level where we have some roof space and a manatee space for the building. Next slide. Here we have the front elevation. This was built with working off of some of the angles of west second, yes third and you're chasing building. We have the folded brick facade that plays off of some of those pieces. The decks get inset into it so that the form remains. The decks don't come off but they set into the building to really emphasize that form of the folded angles they were trying to achieve. Next slide. I just submitted some renderings of that so we see sort of in place the top right is the corner of a western, the five-story building blocked out in the foreground that I discussed earlier on the corner. This being built right now. See our building beyond with the three family in between. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Any other questions from the board? I'm Chair and members of the board. The cornering with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. This time the mayor is elected to defer to the judgment of this board. It's a back information community process. This went through a boss and planning led community process. I can follow in very public meetings. This applicant also connected with two civic associations. The winners were interviewed onznc.fr Thank you, Madam Chair, members of the Board, the Assistant East Gannon from Councillor Flint's office. Councillor Fennel would like to go on record and support based on a good community process and work with the neighbors and the West Broadway Neighborhood Association. At the same time, however, Councillor Fennel acknowledges remaining quality of life concerns. He believes it is also critical that the city of Boston begins to genuinely listen to legitimate concerns from neighbors on similar projects and impacts the self-fossums existing parking process by abandoning recent Boston Transportation Department parking guidelines of 0.5 parking spots are lower and adhering is closely as possible to the actual local zoning laws and regulations. Councillor Fennel respectfully asks for a vote and continue working with the neighbors on any quality of life issues that arise during the construction phase and thereafter. Thank you. Thank you, Madam Chair. There are no additional comments. Would that be a motion? Madam Chair, this is a good project on capital support to make a motion to favour the vote. Very second. Second. Yes. Mr. Stauberidge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. As we roll. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Mr. Berraza. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Chair votes. Yes, motion carries. Thank you. We move on to the rest of the day on the AM here. What I ask at this time is there are any requests for withdrawal of the fraud from the 1130? Yes. 100 hunting tin-a-house. It doesn't make any progress. And that request is for case B-O-A, 170, 345, with the address of 100 hunting tin-a-house. Would you go ahead and explain it to your group? Thank you, Mr. Stauberidge. Thank you, Madam Chair. Members, the board attorney, Jeff Drego, with Drego, and to scandal the business address of 11 Beacon Street. Here on behalf of the applicant, we are seeking a short deferral. We've been working with the back-backed business improvement association on a community benefits package for this proposal. And we are scheduled to go late this month to meet with them again and go over some more of the details so we would ask for deferral until that is finished. No, I'm sorry. I didn't get it. No, the bridge 20 is this. Yes. That would be perfect. Thank you. Madam, motion? Motion to deferral until November 25th. Is there a second? Third. Mr. Stauberidge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Lee-Wall. Yes. Mr. Langley. Yes. Ms. Betaprasa. Yes. Ms. Teneriff. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. Motion carries. Thank you. Madam Chair, we received an email of 41130 hearing. This is for our. Add you to 26 North questions. Okay. They're putting in a request to withdraw this proposal. Okay. Is there a motion? I don't know if they do. Do we need a motion? Yes. This is the question. Let me read in the form. This is for case B.O.A. 1703386 with the address of 26 North Presence Shroom. I will make a motion to withdraw this case. Third. Second. Mr. Stauberidge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Lee-Wall. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Ms. Betaprasa. Yes. Ms. Teneriff. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. Motion carries. Mr. Lindon, do you have your handbook? Yes. Thank you. Madam Chair, I'll miss the time. Any second, more street please. Stauberidge, Mr. B.4. Two companion cases. The first being case B.O.A. 148336. Eight with the address of 87. Mara Street. Along with case B.O.A. 148337. All four of the address of 87. Mara Street. Good morning, Mr. Stauberidge. Good morning, Madam Chair. Good morning, Mr. B.O.A. Good morning, Mr. Stauberidge. Good morning, Mr. Stauberidge. Good morning, Mr. Stauberidge. Good morning, Mr. Stauberidge. Good morning, Mr. Stauberidge. Good morning, Mr. Stauberidge. Good morning, Mr. Stauberidge. Good morning, Mr. Stauberidge. Good morning, Mr. Stauberidge. Good morning, Mr. Stauberidge. Good morning, Mr. Stauberidge. Good morning, Mr. Stauberidge. Good morning, Mr. Stauberidge. Good morning, Mr. Stauberidge. Good morning, Mr. Stauberidge. Good morning, Mr. Stauberidge. Good morning, Mr. Stauberidge. Good morning, Mr. Stauberidge. Good morning, Mr. Stauberidge. Good morning, Mr. Stauberidge. Good morning, Mr. Stauberidge. Good morning, Mr. Stauberidge. Good morning, Mr. Stauberidge. Good morning, Mr. Stauberidge. Good morning, Mr. Stauberidge. Good morning, Mr. Stauberidge. Good morning, Mr. Stauberidge. Good morning, Mr. Stauberidge. Good morning, Mr. Stauberidge. Good morning, Mr. Stauberidge. Good morning, Mr. Stauberidge. Good morning, Mr. Stauberidge. Good morning, Mr. Stauberidge. Good morning, Mr. Stauberidge. Good morning, Mr. Stauberidge. Good morning, Mr. Stauberidge. Good morning, Mr. Stauberidge. Good morning, Mr. Stauberidge. Good morning, Mr. Stauberidge. Good morning, Mr. Stauberidge. Good morning, Mr. Stauberidge. Good morning, Mr. Stauberidge. Good morning, Mr. Stauberidge. Good morning, Mr. Stauberidge. Good morning, Mr. Stauberidge. Good morning, Mr. Stauberidge. Good morning, Mr. Stauberidge. Good morning, Mr. Stauberidge. Good morning, Mr. Stauberidge. Good morning, Mr. Stauberidge. Good morning, Mr. Stauberidge. Good morning, Mr. Stauberidge. Good morning, Mr. Stauberidge. Good morning, Mr. Stauberidge. Yes. Chair votes, yes, motion carries. Thank you. If there are no further requests, we'll return to the hearing schedule for 11 a.m. and go to case B.o.A. 17179-6-1 with the address of 438 Tallbid Avenue. If the applicant and who will represent our president, would they please explain to the board? Good morning, everyone. My name is Yasmin and I'm here representing 438 Tallbot Avenue. So our zoning violation was insufficient over a year. You can go to the second one. Yes. So we started the work. So the house had a fire damage and we started the renovations with a short permit, short form permit, but then the inspector realized that actually we needed a long form because we had to rebuild the whole deck. One of the decks from outside because it was way too damaged by the fire, this structure. And that's what triggered zoning. You can go ahead. Yes. So they required a real yard is 15 feet and our proposed setback is approximately 5 feet. And so violation again, real yard is sufficient to flush their configuration. So next. Yes. So here's the plan. We can go next because I have pictures. Yes. So our hardship, justification for the deck rebuild was because we didn't realize that the built out, like there was a bump. And it was way too damaged for the fire. So we didn't realize that we would have to rebuild everything. And the old bump was part of the house. It wasn't just a deck, but that deck is used for egress. So we had to rebuild the deck to comply with safety and egress codes. And now the new configuration doesn't have that bump. So the deck is actually attached to the house. You can go next. Yes. So here you can see a before and after picture. So before there was a bump, actually the next life has a better picture. Yes. So there we go. So before the fire, we had that little bump and that the deck. But as you can see, it was, the deck was already damaged for previous homeowner, I guess. And then that bump was very damaged inside. So for safety purposes and to meet the code, we decided to just remove everything and rebuild the deck completely. And now that's an egress and that's why it has like an emergency from the top floor because there's a door there and from the bottom floor. So next. Yes. So the rear deck only is like a link with the footprint due to the flush stair landing. It's not visible from the street level. The house is like in the corner. So you don't really see from the street that deck. It's applied to resident show use. There's no commercial activities. So there's a very low impact on the neighbors. So we are requesting the dimensional variance from article 69 paragraph nine, which allows five feet rear yards and bank instead of 15. And it's just because of you know, it was a unique hardship to the fire with your since the lot. It's kind of weird. It's kind of tricky to do like a better design. So it was very limited options on the design and we decided to do what looked better, you know, from the neighbors perspective street. And we also didn't want to cause any impact on the neighbors. It's compliant with the code right now and it's way better as it was before. As you could see the picture, it was everything was brought in. It was, you know, it was basically falling apart. And right now actually we are closer to the house than to the lot line. So the rebuild deck improved safety, egress and even aesthetics. So it does look better. And we didn't have any tension on expanding the use. It was only to restore what was lost and to have the egress due to the doors. And it was like set back in crochet. It's due to the required safety updates and that provolous family to safely use the rear yard access again and for their egress. Thank you. Other questions from the board? Hearing none, ma'am. I'm sharing members of the board for the record. My name is Jeremy Benbury. I'm the joint justice community engaged and specialist for the office of neighborhood services. The applicant has completed the community process which consisted of a very likely attended the brothers meeting where no opposition of concerns raised. Next, the component presented to Convince, the specific association which completed the community process and the opponent was approved to move forward. Today our office has received two letters of opposition to the building of the rear decks. We are now bothered with the concerns from privacy as the stairs would be to the side of their apartment. They requested the stairs be rebuilt properly away from their property. Thank you for your time and the most office of neighborhood services related to the birth of the board with their treasure. Thank you. Ma'am, chair. There are no additional comments. Is that ma'am motion? Motion no approve. Second. Second. Sorry, Mr. Stapp. Yes. Ember? Yes. Okay, thank you. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Wewell. Yes. Mr. Langen. Yes. Ms. Betta-Borazzo. Yes. Ms. Turner. Yes. Chair votes yes. Motion carrying. Yes. Next we have case BOA 1738631 with the address of 475 Welles Street. Is the applicant and or the representative of a present with their please explain to the board? Good morning. Madame Chair and members of the board. Can you hear me okay? Yes ma'am. Good. Thank you. I'm an applicant and I'm from the government of architects and was struck story and I'm here to present homeowner is best and roaster but deal from was brought as well. They own a single family home detached and they want to put an addition and the addition will be part of us the second unit. We originally requested an ADU but it was denied so we had to come back with a with a second unit. So if you please go down to sheet 8.0 I'll just go over the floor plans. Thank you. So the addition is mostly the career addition to story but the story starts at the basement level and stress lower for it's only two stories but lower and the site is sloping toward the back. On this on the basement level it was already existing partial finished area with taking part of that today additional unit and then adding that addition to the back and to be a living space and on this first story if we go to the right side. So the added unit is a one bedroom is for the in low unit. If you go to the last sheet I'll just show the 3d views. So on the right side is the existing and the lower areas lower images are on the back and the middle of the demo to the right is the added unit. So the owners request that the addition will be flat roofs so they can actually use it for open space so they're too dexter. So it's also lower the entire addition and it's the back is surrounded by trees so it's really lovely it's private and it just doesn't feel as intrusive to the back. If we go to sheet g 0 1 0.1 I believe. Yes thank you so you see that the building is set a bit crooked on the lot the lot is very small it's only about 4400 square foot so with the violations are FER it's 0.4 requested we have 0.38 it's already existing so pretty much any added finished area will go set us above the allowed of course it's of a bit in use in a single family. District and we have deficiency of usable open space deficiency of parking the rear yard the existing room is already within the setback issues but then added addition is is does the setback and then also the same for rear yard the addition is a little bit protruding over the setback and that's pretty much good. Thank you. Other questions from the board. Yes could you please explain in the reasons why they request for an ADU well denied. Well okay so because we're putting in addition currently in the west walks reason we are not allowed to request an additional unit within an addition only within existing footprint. Okay. Thank you. Any other questions. May I have public testimony. Madam Chair and board members see Johnson with the mayor's office of neighborhood services this petitioner completed the ONS community process and our office would like to defer to the judgment of the board on this application. The office of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of feet and feet and feet and feet and feet and feet and feet and feet and Febkenheit Westen – but before you come across his progress as拜cloth – I really want to ask spice the 2th g Durants speaks for a chance of example, Jared Modern H Okay, can I have a motion to defer? Wait a motion to defer? Stephanie, can you give it to me? I'm sorry. Sorry, can we get a deal with that, Stephanie? Let's do you to December 16th. Okay, thank you and thank you. Mr. Stembridge. Yeah. Mr. Valencia. Yes. As we well. Yes. Mr. Liner. Yes. As Mayor Brasa. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Chair votes yes. The motion carries. Now we've got let's take a 15 minute break. Thank you. Mr. Liner. Thank you, Mr. Valencia. That's a lot. As we well. President Madam Chair. Mr. Liner. President Madam Chair. As better Brasa. Yes. Mr. Turner. President Madam Chair. Thank you. The closing assurance, Mr. Stembridge. Thank you, Madam Chair. Ah, before we go into the discussion, cases 4, 130, scheduled for Liner, 3, M, or ask again if there are any request for withdrawals or deferrals from this time frame. And with that, we'll begin with case BOA 1729459. But the address is 89, Condo Street. Is the applicant and or their representative present? Will they please explain to the board? Yes. Good afternoon, again, Mr. Stembridge. And Chair members of the board for the record, Richard Nitton's. But the business address of 2.45 Summer Street is passed on the acquisition of Render Dalfu. With me is Eric Sackerson, who's also the project project. I think I'm going to the next slide. Please part of your place this time. Madam Chair, members, this project involves the demolition of existing structure and the construction of a new four unit for store residential dwelling. As you can see from the sort of bird's eye view of the context, this is the lower evil of section of East Boston, Converter Street. You can see in the screen track here that we have evolving landscape and housing along this section of Converter Street. And that has been reflected in new zoning that's been adopted last year by the Boston zoning commission. Designating this site as an EVR for zoning district. Nor the next slide, please. The existing conditions are here. We have that analysis of this property and to determine whether it's an historical significance that we find then. This will go through a full R-25 process regardless. But just to point out to the board that there's no particular historical significance with this structure based on our research review, we expect that the R-255 process will not result in the title of the term in which we're specifically to either. Next slide, please. Just to give you a context here, this is looking down on Conver Street, which is a main federal fair through the lower enemy of East Boston. Across the street is some waterfront industrial, but also has been recently resumed to allow for mixed use of higher density and higher huts. Next slide, please. Looking up the street, this is heading towards a square you can see a mix of some industrial buildings that were to recently approved for conversion to residential. You can see some newer construction on our status streets while next slide, please. Just our zoning abstract showing with a lot of oddest 25 feet, and we're currently typical from this area by the 8-7-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1. You can see our site plan, and I'll talk a little more about that in detail. Let me just give the board a quick overview of sort of the history here or where that. So this was before the board, previously under higher zoning, this was only limited to two units, and the dimensional controls that were in place from pot size and other regulations were a bit more strict. This sort of required a number of variances under higher zoning. We were based upon Plenty's Boston ongoing conversation for Plenty's Boston, denying the application, and we waited until the zoning was abandoned. Based upon the embedded zoning, we were able to go back, and we worked for Plenty a little bit so that we're essentially by right for dimension. The only significant variance that's required is parking. So as you can see here, we do need our rear yet setback as well as our front yet setback. There are existing conditions on the site that are not conforming with respect to both side-guests. In the EDR, four-year car tests, five foot minimum setback. However, there was a provision under the embedded article 53 that allows for existing on conforming to remain. If we were to preserve or should the existing structure, we would get the benefit of both vertical and horizontal additions up to the height for the rear setback. Regardless of whether or not there's not compliance with the side-back setback. So we do maintain the two feet on the right. We've had conversations with neighbor who was okay with that setback, and we've maintained 3.5 on the left, which we understand the neighborhood there. Next five, please. This is just our showing our site plan with our permeable area as well as lock coverage. The minimum permeable area of this district is 30%, where it's 42%, and our lock coverage is below the 60% maximum that is permitted. Next five, please. I won't board the board with floor plan layouts. These are all one plus bedrooms, or they could be two bedrooms as well, depending on how big they might be laid out. They're roughly around 95960 square feet each, and we do not propose any habitable space in the base of a bottle, strictly limited storage utilities. Next five, please. Dis showing the upper levels as well as the roof deck, that would be exclusively upper, for next five, please. So when we start our elevations, we did incorporate some aesthetics that we do find in the hotel with this modified mary side roof. As you can see, we do set the roof deck towards the mirror, and we show no windows, no rights, and we do set the roof deck on the back of the building base on our side back on the right side. Next five, please. Showing our left side, we do have sufficient set back from the left side, the upper levels, so they fully can't incorporate the windows, and we have eliminated based upon comments that we did get the community process, some rear decks off the back of the building, making it a little bit more privacy than the bottom between us and the properties behind us. Next five, please. And just a rendering that's for the area of the architecture, as we see here, this four-story, under 50-foot building, would be compliant with the height and stories limits for the medical 50th grade. So a couple of things I will point out for the board. So it expects the relief for parking. There is no parking currently on the site, because we are proposing a total of four units. We are required under the boat to provide one parking space per unit. I would point out ironically for the board that if we were to reduce this to three units and create two parking spaces at the bottom, those parking spaces would not even be required. Amended articles 53 does not require parking for one to three units. It's only been to get to that fourth unit at that spot. We would point out that the introduction of a curb cut at this section of Converged Street would be somewhat challenging. Converged Street is a very highly traveled street, and the proximity of the buildings, closest to the front property line, I think would make some of the hazards backing out of driving out onto the street for this location. So even with two parking spaces, adding a curb cuts the site, we don't see a benefit, and we think of that as the curb rate for the parking has been the case on other projects similar to this. We were cited, I will point out just for persons that notice in the refusal letter, we were cited in the side yet setback. As I mentioned, Article 5329 has provisions that allow for nonconforming conditions to remain, correct, do not exacerbate any of the non-compliance. So in this particular case, as long as we're staying within three and a half feet or two feet, on either side, we would be in general compliance with the purpose of the 10th of that section. Last year's site is for front yard. There is a modal calculation that could be applied. We believe that can be easily addressed by any designer, new, the board name, and co-operates of Caliso, but the sliding of the building in the floor back should not be an issue from the design standpoint. And we do believe, we understand of the Boston Plank this relevant approval for this project based upon its alignment generally with Plank East Boston. I'll pause there and answer the absolute board. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? Hearing nine, may I have public testimony? Yes, Madam Chair, I'm sorry. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Unmute, fast enough. Does your neighbor know the Blue House? You have their support, correct? Yes, I host the right, Ms. Baraza. Yes, they have their fully in support. Are they aware that going up one more story at two feet would be completely blocking their view, their own, you're gonna have really minimum kind of distance within that their story window. Yeah, so they participated in community process, my client has done the direct outreach throughout the entire process, even from the original purpose of the work. There is some commitments to be made to that neighbor, I believe there's some landscape and some other improvements to their property that we incorporate as part of our project and they were satisfied with those post-eminent amendments. Okay, on their first and second story, first and second floor, are there windows along that alleyway that's already kind of being blocked by the existing structure? I have to jump back and take a look. I do know that 89 condor is on that side within two feet of a boundary. Do you see, it's gonna dorm our dear, I believe. I'll take a look on these street view, if we could have that street view. Hard to see, don't talk my head. Maybe the art effect can just let me know because I do appreciate that you, in your new proposal, there's like no windows because it is literally an alleyway, you're not, you can't do that, you have to have rooms. Occupyable bedrooms that have access to light and air. So I just want to make sure that the existing conditions, what is your adjacent structure in regards to the first and second story wall, adjacent wall? If the architect can just let me know, that would be great. Yeah, I know, I know. We may have a street view as well that may show a little bit better this part. I'm not sure if we're gonna have to slide parts or slide the others, this is probably what we're talking about. Yeah, is the question, do they have windows on their side of building this thing? Yeah, I'm seeing a street view. Correct, on the first and second floor, correct? On that street now, alleyway. It don't believe on the door, however, because it's just framed out right, do not believe it's all gone far. I'm sorry, I hear airing's answer. Oh, I think you have windows on that, there's some seconds floor facing our window. All right. All right. So it's not gonna be anything unfamiliar to them when you're built up, when you convert that table and you basically build all the way up. Okay, great, thanks. I don't have any further questions. Any other questions from the board? May I have public testimony? Hello, Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is Eva Jones representing the mayor's office of the neighborhood services. And regarding 89 Condor Street, our office differs from the board's judgment. The community process was conducted, including in a butters meeting held on 5525, which was attended by three community members. The field doctor's meeting was opposition to the proposal and concerns were primarily concerning the uniformity to the neighborhood, the density of the area retaining wall, and that was shared by directivators. The proposal was also reviewed by the Eagle Hill Civic Association at their meeting, and they voted to support in 11 goals. At this time, the mayor's office of neighborhood services, the first is board's judgment on this matter. Thank you, everyone, for your time in consideration. Thank you. Next, we have Steven Marie. Yes, hi, everybody. My name's Stefan Marin. I'm from Councillor Coletta's about this office, and we just want to go on record opposing this project. Okay, thanks. And next, we have the personally engineering. Hello? I'm the engineering, I can hear you here to speak. For the next project, please. Okay, next part of that. All right, no additional comments, Madam Chair. The mayor is fondly young, I'm sure. Yes. So with respect to the report by the mayor's office, I state for contextual purposes, I believe most of the opposition was faced upon the fact that we're not providing enough to parking for the project. We did, again, have that conversation community that introducing off to parking at ground level would not really have it that benefit as of the co-cult. And we would just be creating two spaces for two private spaces, and opposed to taking waste spaces on the street. And we respect to, I understand Councillor Coletta's position of stand with the EGLE, the civic associate in the instance, but this is exactly the type of project that aligns with Plenty's Boston. This is the new zoning that a lot of time was spent on. So we worked to try to address those uses and the conventional requirements in the attachment project. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Hearing none, ma'am, motion. Madam Chair, I'll put forward a motion of approval. I think the lots with lensing to the variance is repulsive. There's second. It's not there, but there. Mr. Stembridge. Yeah. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Is we well? Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Inspector Rosal. Oh no. Connor. No. Chair votes, yes, the motion carries. Thank you. Next, we have two companion cases. First is case B-O-A, 167, 155-8, with the address of 390 Meridian Street. Along with that, we have case B-O-A, 167, 156-1, with the address of 355 border street. If the applicant is the end of their representant of the present, would they please explain the cases to the board? Okay. Thank you. Again, Mr. Stembridge and Madam Chair, I'm support for the record treatments. 245 summer street in Spost, and we have a petitioner and microfluo. I believe in this year as well. I'm calling it here, since it's our target sector. If we can jump down to slide three, I'll try to be brief and I'll get a lot of cases on that chair. So quick site overview. This involves existing through lot at 390 Meridian Street, the original address, the lower 5,000 square feet, 390 Meridian Street is existing, 390 drawing. This building does have a bit more significance, and therefore, preservation of this building is something that the Eagle Pacific Association thought very strongly about. We start to need to develop on the site, because this is a deep through lot essentially as far as the jump two main streets. We are proposed as subdivision and creation of a new foreign enterprise actual dwelling on a border street side. I think we're going to the next slide, please. So currently, there is an existing garage. It's not functional. It's more polished use for storage, development's living in narrow. It's pretty extensive on this side. This section of border street is somewhat mixed in Dutch drill, but with news outing, there seems to be certainly a lot of interest in redevelopment of sites along this side of border street. Our proposal would involve the demolition of this particular building, and then with the subdivision creating for your presidential building. Next slide, please. So just showing the zoning district that's EDR4, or very similar to the last presentation, maybe you can see we got this lot it's pretty far, and within being a through lot, the Wierier et cetera, ironically, for the existing structure, there is no Wierier et cetera, currently because of the through lot conditioning exceptions in RL53. Because of the subdivision, we, where we are, properly aligned, which are the next slide, we have maybe one more for this. Yeah, so with the subdivision, we do create two lots, which are generally similar in the size of lots that we do see in the E-mail neighborhood. The 390 Meridian, we're proposing no work, so that we know demolition, there's a very small portion of that building, which I've highlighted red, that would be in the new Wierier et cetera, however, because we're not proposing any changes to the existing building, we believe that's a condition that can remain with the improvements that we're making to the experience in between both buildings. On the left side, we do see the proposed building at 355 border street, which falls in terms of purposes comprised, with all set-up requirements, including the 5 feet inside that is required in the 5 feet minimum, I should say, so the 5 feet in the EBR4, we do setback the building at 29.4, which would be consistent with the Wierier setback. There are real balconies, and the code does not count in the date, in the calculation of building death, anything that's an unparalleled bathroom, which is there. So while we do a technically required relief for that Wierier setback condition, the building itself comprised with the intent of the code when it comes to setback. We'll go to the next slide, please. Just a purpose showing the existing conditions, next slide, please. The proposed conditions on a survey plan, next slide, please. We go one more here. Just our floor plan is, I just not point out quickly, I know it means the time is all too bad, roughly a thousand square feet units, flat-stall unit on two levels, starting at low as level one, which would be accessible with the similar units above, with exclusive roof deck on the top of the next slide, please. Ask this here. Showing a roof deck next slide. Just showing our elevations, four stories, 150 feet, which is allowed, so this would be compiled with a height. And showing the roof deck in this elevation, one of the things that the EGOLS association asks us to consider is a limited headhouse. We do have buildings behind us that are actually higher in elevation from our industry, but we were asked to consider removing that headhouse which we will do. We do require probably separate, we'll need to have a goal for that, we will send it for that separately, just to give the board an understanding of what the orientation behind the goal looks like. Because our setbacks on both side, we're able to provide windows on both side of the goal, as well, next slide, please. Just showing the left side of the rear, next slide, please. And just some renderings. So I will point out on the right side, the pass right over here, and we did show the headhouse, which we will eliminate in favor of a hatch that will cut down on certainly the visibility issues looking more for our roof. One of the things you will see too, is we did set our building back consistent with the minimum setback of parts of front yard. There is a modal exception that does apply on this part of onward, I mean, on a border street. As you can see, generally, it's villages and others are smaller residential structures. We felt that it was important to include some of that open space in the front to start creating the hopefully of pattern along this section of border street that has some greening and some landstaping. Even though it doesn't exist both meaning left and right, we believe that there's likely development happening on those processes in the future. And therefore, we're trying to set a standard bit to allow this setback consistent front yard apartments. Certainly, we can look at that as part of our design review. The two other reasons why I believe we were cited for rear yard, we do present this to the neighbor of that. Seem to be more fit and favor having this front yard buffer rather than the decks being removed from the building. So that's one of the reason we're requesting the relief on the rear yard for the decks. But certainly, we can address that in design review if the planning department believes on both setback is more appropriate. We have room to do that and sort of eliminate the rear setback violation for the decks. Next slide please. Oh, I think that would be a, just so, so, respects to the relief that would be required. We do for this one as well, the same reasons required. I think, again, if we were appropriate, I think at the lowest level, we would likely not even require anything to eliminate it as well. In addition, as I mentioned, we did a reverse side of the rear yard setback. And that's based upon just the positioning of the building here. We could move it forward eliminated or maintain the old space in the flood and the landscaping and request the relief. Other than that, I believe that the remainder of the regulations under I will continue to run, I will continue to run, I believe the Boston Planet Department has indicated their recommendation for approval from this project as well. I'm answering the questions. Thank you, Mayor. Any questions from the board? Hearing none, ma'am, from the testimony. Hello, Madam Chairman. This is board. My name is Eva Jones representing the mayor's Office of the Neighborhood Services. Regarding 390, Mordyan and 355 Boarders, the office differs the board's different on this matter. A community process was conducted, including in a butters meeting held on 327, 25, and was heavily attended by community members. Additionally, we also received six letters in opposition to the proposal. The feedback from both the meeting and the letters received by my office were strong opposition, centering on the loss of green space, parking, and increased density, traffic and noise burdens, as well as cumulative over development of the Eagle Hill Neighborhood, school-related congestion, and strong, documented community opposition through letters. Community members also expressed opposition to the garage being removed, as well as the fact that they believe that the applicant is subject to providing the property to not adhere to the new plan East Boston zoning changes. The proposal was also reviewed by the Eagle Hill Civic Association at their meeting on 327, 25, and they voted five in favor and 15 opposed. At this time, the mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services, the press and the board's judgment on this matter. Thank you, everyone, for your time and consideration. Thank you. And next, okay, we have engineer, please. I can say you're in the address. Yes, my name is David Mitterskuh. I'm a good afternoon, Madam Chair, all the members of the board. So my name is Gabriel Dmitterskuh. I own 388 Meridian Street, which is directly abutting both lots of Meridian Street to Border Street. So our concern is about our existing garage structure, the yellow building in the presentation. Since the new building is gonna be three yards away from our structure, that's a slab of great building, as far as we know, and with my face, like serious structural issues during the construction. Also, we are concerned about the integrity of the retaining wall, which varies between five and 12 feet along the common property line. There is a conclusion in the proposal where it says that it's a new retaining wall proposed, and we don't understand what that means and how the work is gonna be done if they wanna create a new, like build a new wall between the properties, is gonna, our property is gonna be affected also because you can't build from one side only. We are worried, my husband and I invested a lot of money on our property to restore this historical building. And because of the new construction, our lot in the backside where the garage is, if us or future owners are gonna want to develop that part, our lot is gonna become unbeautiful with this new construction. Also, we are very concerned about the green spaces, conceptually, originally, this area was aimed to be a unified green island by transforming the back of adjacent lots. The design was intended to establish a large green area, aiding in temperature moderation, fostering biodiversity, currently in the existing surrounding green area, sustains an impressive number of diverse fish, animals and birds that are expected to be disturbed by the disappearance of green area, due to the new building, which is oversized. There is an existing, very old manolia tree, it's a landmark, which is not shown in the proposal. Also, we are concerned about the statistical and architecturally about the proposed property. We're facing our properties just walls between those now concerned about the statics. And there is an example of... Can you please wrap up? Yeah, so 30 windows facing our property, the proposed rooftop is clearly thanks to leverage the hardware view as a selling point for the developer effectively, the nine-gast view that we currently enjoy. We purchased our property base for this, for the views also, and we're gonna lose that. Thank you. Thank you. And next, we have Esteem Marine. Hi, I'm Jeff from Councillor Colitis about this office, and we wanted to go on to record opposing this project. Thank you. Thank you. Were you first-ponsed out of chair? Please. So I appreciate this is the Demetresco's comments. We have been on site, my client, engineer, and architect, myself. I have met with them personally. We went over all of their concerns, including the retaining wall of their concern with. We see no issues with the construction, and certainly are going to take all necessary per cost and staff to address any of those concerns. Ultimately, the real issue we believe was that they wanted us to build something for them on their site. It was a little bit more of an aspect than we usually cost them to. We're happy to continue working with them, but we believe that many of the issues that she's raised, which is concerned with, we've addressed, including the creation of significant open space that's more usable between the two buildings, and to do everything we can to preserve any trees on site. We will also need incorporate tree trees on the border-tree side. So I believe all of those concerns were addressed to this process. And certainly, the Ego Health Center Association both was reflective of the fact that the neighbor, who recently spoke was adamantly close to the project. And we believe it was to have more to do with what we're not willing to do with respect to building on their site as it does with the realm overall issues that's about there. Thank you. Are there other questions from the board? Are there other questions from the board? Hearing none is their motion. Madam Chair, I will put forward a motion of approval with the provisor that the front yard set backs increased to three feet, and plans are submitted to planning for design or view with attention to site planning design, including detailed views of the ground floor and entrances, as well as building placement. There are second. Second. Orch. Yes. Mr. Ronson. Yes. Ms. Wu-Wol. Yes. Mr. Wynon. Yes. Ms. Betaprasa. Yes. Ms. Turner. No. Care about it's yes, the motion carries. Thank you very much. Next, we have case 08, 157, 558, 4, with the address of 81 Lexington Street, the applicant and or the representative of the present will they fully exploit the avoidable. Once again, thank you, Mr. Stembridge. You're after me, Madam Chair, I'm to the board for the record Richard Mainz. Business address of 245 Sumner Street, he was bossed on behalf of the petitioner at Allison Kale, with me as James Christopher, project architect for this project. I'm going to jump right down to the second slide and just serve all of our ourselves overlooking that. So what we do see here, Madam Chair, three lots. We see the one in parcel of 81 Lexington Street, which is sort of screen top here. And then we have the two locks on the corner, which are corner lock conditions with the rough lock, ET and I have to eat wide, by about 50 feet in depth. Our proposal would be to demolish existing structure at 81 Lexington, combine all of the locks and propose a single structure, containing a total of seven units. I would point out to the board that because this is free locks and the EBR-3 district, EBR scenarios in which an as-of-white project with no parking, drop to seven units works. And it's one of the reasons why we've considered the number of seven units and why we're at or at. If you look at the two locks here in the corner, those would certainly accommodate a semi-attached two-family dwelling with three foot setbacks on the sides, no setback, middle, and the 10 foot setback in the rear. We could meet all of the requirements as there's a reduced amount of permeability that's necessary and increased amount of lock hours is permitted. So total of four units could be on those two locks and a standalone three on the one at 81 Lexington. Once again, because those are all being individual projects and separate locks, the number of units on one particular lot would not require any offshoot parking. Our proposal rather than doing three separate projects, three separate buildings, three separate services, is to combine and do it as one single building with a total of seven units. With that said, we understand that some relief would be necessary in considering that this was filed. And I will say this with some problems, this may be the last base that this board will be under, that's sitting under prior zoning. So a lot of the violations that were cited in the fall of notice have been eliminated. And we are left with only the remaining violations that would be traded on our article for Q3D as amended. So first of all, I would point out that the flurry ratio that was cited, mental and law size, lot here for the shelves long unit, the lock width frontage are no longer applicable under amended articles for Q3D. So those are no longer even traded under the current conditions. For a lock coverage, we're below the 75% maximum that's a lot for a corner lot because we would combine these into one parcel, a corner lock condition would exist and 75% of lock coverage would be permissible. I believe we're just over 51% of lock coverage. Same with the current enabled area, we're about 26% total, current area. 15% is the all that's required for the poor lock condition, the ER3. So we would be in compliance with that. Our building depth where we would be at the longest point, this would be some of the L-shaped pot, would be compliant, we would be less than 70 feet, and our total building foot, less than 3000 square feet, that's also allowed. So again, general alignment with the amended zoning under our R3 and I'm talking about things that change the done throughout this process is to ensure that the project evolved as planning's Boston was becoming, coming online and certainly will address the number of platforms. We are allowed to have up to six units on a single lot and the ER3 provided at least 55 feet of fund if we went out of that along Lexington Street and therefore because we exceed 55 feet, the six unit building would be produced matter of right, would be allowed, and allowed use. Once again, we understand we are proposing total seven units, but I think I've explained with the board our philosophy in arriving at seven units of that, the azure scenario is wouldn't certainly permit that. We do require relief in this instance for parking. We did look at some alternatives for parking or some options for parking. It is the tight based upon the topography of this land, Lexington Street sits higher than the back portion of the lot and the entrance point, S-Ender's point of the light with the azure marriage street made it somewhat of a challenge even for parking in sight. With respect to the planning organization, we understand that they did recommend the NIL, but once again, I wouldn't point out that the project wouldn't be a compatible fit. We do have a number of multifamilys that have been recently approved, recently built this section of the vehicle, especially that first two lots of Lexington Street. So I'm gonna run through the plan, spread band band James just jumping as well. Let's try to get through this as quickly as possible. We can jump over that. So just showing our building foot princess screen bottom would be Lexington Street, the back of the property to extreme top of the parents to the right. You can see that we do meet the South Ag in the rear for the deepest portion of the lot. It's interesting because even though we are 10 feet on the right side, if you're looking at it from Marion Street, that would be an excess of a sidebaric condition, which is typically employing when you have a four-a-lot condition such as this. So we do meet the intent of what a sidebar would be allowing enough of a buffer between our building and the building that's located directly adjacent to us on Marion Street. The same to be set on our left side with our five foot setbar, I'm sorry, our fourth foot setbar on the left side. Next slide please. Just showing the existing conditions for building that's on the side. It doesn't illustrate the slope difference from the great difference from less and take both the back of the block. Next slide please. Can't exist in condition. We can tell both of us. We can jump over to skip all of this as well. Sorry, we'll start partying study and skip all of that as well. Okay, so showing our ground level, we show building storage, regular room, and our bike storage. We incorporated that in lieu of the concept of parking. We think the, you know, sort of the bike storage, our audition for that. That lowest level, which is generally not otherwise usable for out of all space, made a good use of that space. We do indicate some landscaping buffering that would happen. That condition on the right side of the Marion Street view would allow for a nicer experience between our adjacent neighbor to our right and what currently exists today which is basically a parking lot. Same with the rear and you can see that we do have a pretty good amount of open space on the site and certainly plenty of parking will air here. I, with the new regulations on our 53 next stop foods. Just showing our layouts of our units and they're pretty typical layouts as we go out of the building. This being the first level, we can jump to the next slide. Second level here and we do a mix of one and two better and four one better and three, two better. So I'm here. And then our upper unit, and I'll let James jump in a moment, we talk about the elevations, our upper unit does not extend all the way across. So we do have a three-story condition on the Marion Street side and a slightly taller condition as we get further down to the maximum street ports. Some of the other structures. So the next slide please. So James, go ahead and jump in quickly and talk a little about the elevations here that would be helpful. Thanks Richie. As a matter of known, when we first out of this project, I met with the Civic Association and the Butters. It was a much larger project. It was an eight year in the building with retail, I grade, four stories. And when we went through the planning spots and discussion, I think we got a much prettier building. The common with the community was that they would prefer to see something that was more historically intriguing. So it went with the Mansaat roof on the elevation one. You can see that it's a one-story Mansaat roof on the front. But it does go up to two stories on the left end. You can see that on elevation two, that's looking towards the back of the building. That second story, Mansaat is recessed for only the top floor unit. Next slide please. So you can see that in this iteration here. This is the right side when facing. And the rear. Next slide please. This is the existing site you can see just for context, the grade changes. We did study whether adding parking at grade was feasible, even with the site constraints as they are, we really couldn't make legal parking spaces that would function. And we thought for the access and the location that the living spaces are more viable option. Next slide please. And then this is our proposed building. Again, we have that two-story Mansaat on the left end. The ad draws over the windows very historically intriguing. And I think a much prettier building than what we started with. Next slide please. This is the Marion Street View. Next slide. And there we see that one-story Mansaat and the two-story off in the back, which again helps to minimize the height and keep the overall feeling of the massing of the building down. And then next slide. And this is just some context, aerial context views. This is the existing seeria now. If you get out of the next slide, that's the proposed building now. Thanks, James. I would just add for the boards, as I mentioned, there's been a lot of development activity in this section, People Hill, where the housing stock has been somewhat lesser quality, certainly a lot of TLC and renovations. And as you can see, some of the newer buildings that are along this core of less than the street, all stand in four stories. And the church across the street certainly has a pretty decent high precedent as well. The idea was to sort of lower the corner when you're coming around the area street, but as you've got a little bit further into a Lexington street, you can see that one building over where four stories and then dilated costs on us as well. So that's one of the reasons why we've adjusted the building to not make a full four-story all around. I believe that said, I'm happy to pause there and answer our support. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? Madam Chair, a question. You know, I understand the topography of the site, but I'm just wondering, you know, what drove the choice of so much storage in the basement? You know, that whole kind of partially, mostly below great areas, storage or storage for bicycles. And it just seems like a lot of empty space. James, you want to take that? Yeah, so sorry. I think in general, you know, with the basement, we wanted to keep the FAR down. We know that basement units are not seen desirable from a city perspective or frankly from a neighbor's perspective. And as I mentioned originally, we had programmed a commercial space into this building. So we thought that maintaining the basement to provide some amenity space for the building, which would include storage and that stuff, as well as the bicycle storage room, which is accessed off of a ramp to the rear so that you have one door entry and exit into the bicycle ramp, which was a viable option. And you know, in terms of the unit count in the height, the seven units is frankly where this project is financially viable. Our client at this point has had a significant delay as not through the CPAs fault, but through ISD and the review process to get to this point. And we feel like she's been very amenable to work with the community and try to bring a project that meets the inherent intent of the Chips-Zoning Code Changes. Any other questions from the board? I just have a comment. Are you able to work with the required height limits of 35 feet or would that not allow you to do, I guess the fourth floor layout? Are you able to do this project within the 35 foot height limit? I think it certainly, it's going to reduce the unit more requires the reprogram building. I know we have a mix, we can try to get what mix of, larger one beds can certainly almost half two beds. My concern would be to get to that number, we probably would lose some of the two beds, these things become a lot smaller here, that's a bad question. So that's one of the reasons why we've tried to, I don't want to say give half a loaf here and take it off of the married street side, but we feel that that square footage makes this a much more viable project. We certainly think it's a much better fit than what's there today on a existing building. The other thing is the, the other thing that looks kind of out of context is like the width of the building and it was noted on the BPD that you proposed 68, but 50 foot is required and I don't have so much issues with the amount of units, but I do have an issue with it kind of not fitting in context. So like the married street facade works really well with the context with the wolf front and I'm just wondering if there's a way of developing that facade along Lexington Street to cut down that width of the building. So it doesn't look so massive and out of context, but that's just kind of something back. I don't have any yet. No architects, but I did have a chance to talk with James about this and one of the things that we were kicking around, idea that almost made it look like two buildings because this could be two, you know, basically two structures that were done by right. He would just have a gap between the married street side and the proposed, I understand alone on Lexington. So again, I don't know all the details of this, but I am assuming through some extensive design review that could be some suggestions or recommendations to break out that facade along Lexington. And almost give you a point. Yeah, I can still be one building. It's just, you know, the way that you make it may be appear too massing. Are you bringing some elements of the both fronts along Lexington Street that might be able to break up that? I agree completely. I think we can absolutely wherever the BPD on that, even just a shadow line would make Duke go a long way to break up that long shear wall. Yeah, great. Thank you. No questions? Any other questions from the board? Matt, public testimony? Hello, Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is Eva Jones. I'm representing the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. Regarding anyone Lexington Street, our office will defer to the board's judgment on this matter. The community process was conducted, including a better meeting on 316-24, which student staffing changes we cannot confirm the amount of constituents in attendance. Although my office did receive two letters and opposition to this proposal expressing concerns of insufficient parking during a critical parking shortage, increased traffic and non-conformity with the neighborhood. Additionally, the proposal was reviewed with the Equal Health Civic Association, which convened on 327-24, and the association has voted on the proposal zero and support 12 posts. At this time, the mayor's office and the neighborhood services differs from the board's judgment on this matter. Thank you, everyone, for your time and consideration. Thank you, Nitz. We have a student. Hi, my name is Stefan from Councilor Colettis about this office, and we want to go on record opposing this project. Thank you so much. Right. Are you fling? Mr. Hinton, can you weigh in? If you're on. Yep. My apologies, Madam Chair. Good afternoon, everyone. Jeff Hinton, City of Law, is in planning department. We made a recommendation of tonight without prejudice. We made note that they are tearing down a residential building to put up seven units. In our recommendation, we recommended that it not a key dict. And we're not really opposed to more residential units on this site by piggybacking on what Miss Bed of Horizons said. That is that context on that street on Lexington, the facade is just way too massive for our liking. So we're on record opposition to not without prejudice, we'd like to have no more than six units in that facade to be broken up. Thank you. Madam Chair, just briefly if I may, we just want to clarify from the record that the vote of the Gillesaer Association is from 24. I believe, although I was not involved at that time, I believe that was the prior iteration of this project with full four story and large number of units, is since reduced, and it has come back to the community for further presentation. So that's why I'm sure that's clear for the record that that was not. Sorry, Mr. Lins, are you saying it? Did the vote back out or did not? I believe that Edel-L Sonner's iteration. That's it. Yes. So they have no position or do they have any position? They usually don't vote, sorry, I'm, but they've been informed of the updates to the plan. Okay, thank you. Any other questions from the board? Hearing that, they have a motion. And I'm sure just listening to Jeff Hampton with kind of his remarks, I would like to put forward an agreement to deny the project without prejudice. So they, so the applicant can come back to us with a reduced count of units, preferably six, and to really work on that Lexington Street frontage to make it work more along the way that the architect was doing Marion Street facade, so as to break down that length of that facade along Lexington Street. Thank you. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Stumbridge. No. Mr. Rozio. Yes. Ms. Wewell. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Better Brazil. Yeah. Mr. Turner. Yes. Carvalhoes. Yes. The motion carries. Thank you. How did that? Next we have to, sorry, actually, the next two companion and the following case have been different. But that takes us to case B.O.A. 172, 382 with the Adios of 1260 boilers on the street. If the applicant and their members are present would they point to the board? Thank you, Madam Chair, board members. My name is Daniel Brennan, permanent license consultant for Wunder here today to secretly from Article 66, Section 14 for a large takeout use. The threshold for large takeout is 2,500 square feet. We're just over that by 519 square feet. I have Jason Vacher here to walk us through from Wunder on the presentation, give you a little context on the concept and how we're going to mitigate pickup and traffic concerns. I'm sorry. May I ask you a quick question? Sure. I believe if my memory is correct, we were deferred the last time to speak with a PD. Do we know if that occurred? We shared some email concepts and we met again with Penalamic Association, but there wasn't a direct meeting between transportation and our team. Okay, I mean, well, thank you. Chair, is Jason Vacher then up there in the panel? Yes. Yes, thank you then. I appreciate you at the board's time again, being in front of you for a second time now. If the board would allow, I'd like to walk through the deck that I was unable to walk through the last hearing. That said, I will keep it quick. I know it's been a long morning and afternoon for you guys. So I just want to reintroduce you to the concept. Wunder is a new quick serve restaurant that is expanding into the Boston area. And we're looking to occupy 1260 oilstone here with our first location in Boston proper. That said, Boston, the Wunder is a new concept and a new take on quick serve. And we differentiate ourselves in several ways, one of which is the way we partner with chefs and restaurants across the country to bring these restaurants and these chefs to neighborhoods like Fenway. So that said, we are really focused on providing accessibility. A lot of these restaurants and a lot of these partners, they wouldn't be able to support a standalone location in any one given neighborhood, but our means and our strategy allows us to expand these brands into neighborhoods and provide a wide variety of different cuisines in each of our retail locations. So that said, I think everybody's quite aware of how the landscape has changed post COVID and we are very conscientious of that and our model is predicated on it. So not only are we focused on providing a very warm and welcoming environment, front of house-wise seat for guy named customers or customers that are passing through, but also providing all of the necessary amenities that our customers not only expect but demand and that's for both pickup and delivery. I think I spoke in some detail and at some length at the last hearing on how we are able to mitigate and manage some of the concerns that the FCA had raised regarding delivery operations, obviously boils to Fenway. It's a very busy neighborhood. The FCA was kind enough to invite us up to be heard a second time and to meet with the group in person after our first hearing and we really appreciate that. And we had taken time to walk through the neighborhood and happen to be an event night that night. So I saw exactly what their concerns are and we were very appreciative of that, but I do feel the need to reiterate that I think the worst case scenario that's been envisioned here isn't necessarily reflective of what we're bringing to the neighborhood. I know there have been some users that have gone through the board or that operate either in Fenway or in Backday that have extremely high order volumes. These are problems that I wish we had at Wonder. But some of these users, they're dealing with much lower average order values. Our average order values is about $35 per order or per transaction. And we're not doing nearly as much revenue as some of these other users that have raised a lot of the red flags between Fenway and Backday. So that said, we're still uniquely poised to manage that courier process in comparison to any of our competition. And that's through our purchase of GrubHub earlier this year. And the way we approach courier management to begin with. So we make it a point to operate each of these locations so that we are not disruptive to the neighbors. We have a lot of locations in New York City, for example. And in urban environments where our ability to cohabitate with residential is extremely important. And with that, we're bringing those same mitigation strategies and those same management strategies up into Boston. So I could go into more details in terms of delivery volumes, but I can say, without getting into diving into too much detail, but that during our peak hours, we're probably looking at max 40 to 50 orders per hour. And that's inclusive of delivery. With that, we're batching 15 to 20% of our orders, which reduces the amount of couriers that have to come on site for a location such as this. So again, when you think about it, the larger picture and the concerns that have been raised by the SCA. During event nights and the SCA had requested that we explore, whether or not we would consider closing our doors during event nights. From a business perspective that would be incredibly irresponsible. When you're talking about a location like Fenway, where you do have thousands, thousands of people coming into that neighborhood for event nights or for call games. The number of couriers and the traffic that we're going to drive is negligible. It's inconsequential in the grand scheme here. And so with that, I think a lot of the benefits here, this is a neighborhood that's growing, that's evolving. It's a perfect demographic for us. You have a really young demographic that's incredibly savvy. And more importantly, very conscientious of their time. And I think the convenience that we bring and the variety of foods that we bring are exactly what the neighborhood would be looking for and what the residents would be looking for. So with that said, there were a number of points that were raised by both the board and the SCA that I want to touch on real, real quick. So operationally, we were asked to explore whether or not we could manage our couriers through the real. For a variety of reasons, we can't do that. One of those being the size of the space. This space is pretty tight for us in our operation as is. And so with the walking distance, the our ability to design in a rear-choreier pickup, it just simply doesn't work from a design standpoint. Furthermore, the walking distance from that rear entry into the bond to an hour space is about 125 feet. With that, we try to have our couriers, our target as target is that couriers on and off of our properties within 90 seconds. Adding that at a distance increases that time they're on site. Furthermore, you also have, I believe, their co-ops are condos right behind us. And some of the issues that were raised, I believe, by the board as well, is that we did not want couriers corregating at the rear and disrupting the residential above and now also behind. So for operational purposes, we couldn't do that. Food safety as well. We can't have couriers coming into our back of house. That poses a food safety and an FSQA concern. There is a shared hallway. But with that, we would have to have constant eyes on a pickup shelf, for example, to ensure, again, food safety, which is incredibly important. One of the other points that had been raised again was the restricting business hours or opening hours. And I think I explained why we can't really accommodate that, but just to reiterate that point. Our model, and when you order, it illustrates what the expected or projected delivery time is. During event days, that's going to take into account the fact that there's traffic and delivery times are going to be elongated, let's call it. Average consumer, I don't know about you if I call a peter A, and they say it's going to be 45 minutes, I'm probably shifting where I'm ordering from. We expect consumer to be behavior, to be no different with us. So I would expect that our delivery volumes would drop during event days. But we would see an increase in past due traffic. So it still makes the site viable from a business perspective with the amount of feet that are on the ground in Fenway during event days. So the last point that was raised was curbside management. And this was the point that the chair brought up at right at the beginning of the hearing. We have conceded and we are more than willing to essentially, let's call it lease for lack of a better term, the two parking stalls that are directly in front of our tenant space. And this would be for short term parking. This would be 10 to 15 minute short term parking, really intended to accommodate delivery drivers. I mentioned during the last hearing, we would ballpark anywhere, about 50 to 60% of our deliveries would be through bicycle couriers or two wheeled couriers, the balance being in vehicles. And we wanted to accommodate vehicle couriers a bit better. So what we have not established is what the mechanism for dedicating those two stalls would be. But we are more than open to having that in place, working with the city to have that in place at the market rate. I believe it's 250 an hour in the Fenway neighborhood, $2.50 an hour for those two spots from the hours of three to eight I believe meter parking ends at 8 p.m. in the neighborhood and does not apply on Sundays. And so with that, I think I needed to take an opportunity to not only better explain the concept here and what we're bringing to the neighborhood, but more importantly to kind of ease the concerns and the nightmare scenario that I think some people had envisioned here. Yes, we are ultimately a takeout restaurant, but the volumes that we're gonna be bringing here, I don't feel in any way would be disruptive to the neighborhood, given the context and the rapid growth that you guys are seeing here. So with that, I'm more than happy to answer any questions or take any comments that the board might have. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? Yeah, Madam Chair, I think at the last hearing, I asked that they consider adding more seating was that taken into account? I did not see any change in the plans in that regard. Yes, apologies for not mentioning that. We did expand that counter seating that is along the front. So we have expanded that front of house to 14 total in seats for dining customers. So there are now 14 versus how many last time? The week down, do you recall off the top, you had a believe you were at 10, 6, okay, 6. So 6, 16, 14. So, that's that, Katie, I'm glad you brought that up because that was something that I was really looking closely in regards to the renderings and the plan. And I must say I'm a little disappointed the way in which the interior has been rendered because I think, you know, kind of reminding myself what Katie was kind of pointing to at the last hearing was that it felt like it was a commercial kitchen really closed off and then the idea that you can maybe allow for folks that are visiting to just rest and have a dining experience to be able to, you know, come at the scurry of your brand, you know, kind of catering business. And when you look at the interior, there is no atmosphere. Like you literally are a closed commercial kitchen because there's, you can't really look at the kitchen, you can't really look at anyone, you really are, you just have a host and you have a screen and you just have tables, but it's not a restaurant. And so I think it's a really lost opportunity. You almost want to turn that space into really an exhibit, an exhibit space because it really now does not read as a place where you can eat. So I don't know if that was intentionally to like disguise it just to accommodate Katie's feedback from the last hearing, but I was really disappointed at the lack of kind of public and that you could have, you know, took on as an opportunity. And I was someone that really supported the project. Thank you. Go ahead. I've been at the chair area, I believe, at the last hearing was suggesting with me that to bring Boston Transportation Department into the conversation has that done? So Boston Transit has, that was in regards to the parking stalls and the curbside management piece. And all we're really waiting on is trying to figure out what the mechanism would be to have those two parking stalls on Boyleston dedicated for short term parking and it wouldn't be necessarily, I don't think it'd be dedicated to us, we would be doing this not only for our benefit, but for the benefit of some of the adjacent restaurants as well. So Mr. Sorry, I was just going to ask if Mr. Hoey from Transportation or Mr. Hampton wants to address that point that would be helpful. Yeah, hi, Sherry. This is Patrick from Streets. And we have been in communication with the proponents. We just recently received a graphic and a description narrative around their most recent plans. And we would like some time to review that and also to give the proponent an opportunity to meet with us on a call to have a discussion with our engineers and others at the department. We could. Thank you, Mr. Stumbridge, did you have a additional question? Now, that answer is the rest of what I was looking for, Patrick. Thank you. I mean, does that mean that Patrick is implying a potential deferral or are we still voting on the case today? I would leave that up to the board. Do you have a decision to defer? We really have a chance to. I think we would, I think we would vote to defer at this point. If I may, but we need to take the vote out there, obviously. I, if the board chair would allow, I could make one suggestion. We would be more than open to having a condition in the event that the board saw fit to prove that we would work with transportation to have those two stalls addressed in a way that is satisfactory to the board. Mr. Habt, can you weigh in given BPD's theme up? Markman Edition? Yes, thank you, Madam Chair. Members of board, Jeff Anthony, City of Boston Planning Department. Our recommendation hasn't changed from the original to the island of that prejudice. We still believe it's a ghost kitchen. The appellan has stated that the number of seeds has increased from 14 to 14 from six. We don't have those plans. We still have the original plans that show six. So we don't know those plans that submit its ISD either. But in any event, whether or not the board elects to defer this BPD review, we're still going to be on the record just that out of our prejudice. Thank you. Okay, well, let's take public testimony. Good afternoon, Madam Chair and members, Mr. Siggy Johnson with the mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. Our office would like to go on record and opposition of this conditional use permit, a business with a four plan indicating function more similar to a production facility rather than a restaurant used does not contribute to the vibrant streetscape in this area. Our office hosted on a butters meeting on May 29th. The applicant also met with the Fenway Civic Association, which is opposed to this application due to the ghost kitchen life operation with limited focus on dining and eating as evidenced by the very small amount of square footage devoted to the in-store dining despite its high foot traffic location. The location is in a park of Boyleston Street that experiences a high level of traffic gridlock due to direct proximity to Fenway Park and a concept that is based primarily on utilizing delivery careers would exacerbate the issue, a proposal to have careers used in rear of the building was determined not to be feasible. With that background, OIS Urges the Board to deny this conditional use permit. Thank you. Thank you. We have some courage. Good afternoon, Chair members of the Board. This is Samantha Courage with Councillor Durk in office. The Councillor would like to defer on the board for this proposal. It's our office is understanding that the plans from or submitted to BTB yesterday, early evening. We would like more time to review those also. We've been in contact with the community who is opposed with this. So the Councillor would be like to be unrecorded as referring to the board. Thanks so much. Madame Chair, there are no additional comments. Any other final comments from the applicant? Madame Chair, I would like to make one additional comment if you don't mind. So the ghost kitchen comment had been brought up several times. I do want to point out that the whole all guys, which is in the same building adjacent to us, they don't have any indoor seating. They have a counter, I believe, with three bar height seats. It had been indicated that they have a significant more seating than we do, but that is not in fact the case whatsoever. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? May I have a motion? Madame Chair, I'd like to put forward a motion of denial about prejudice. I think we just keep wanting to see this used as something that it's not. You know, I don't think it's an appropriate location. The takeout business relies on motor vehicles, and I think the concerns are valid from transportation and planning. I think this is an area with many entertainment and sports venues. So I think a business that functions more as a third space where people can come and sit and linger and gather is way more appropriate here. So for those reasons, motion, I deny prejudice. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge. While I agree that the way is necessary, I would hope that we could vote for it the way it's a reasonable amount of time. It's not then that now without prejudice would be the case. Any chance we could make it the way of the way of what the furl is. What are your, is there something different from the deferral that would change our outcome? Katie just put a motion forward. I know that's why I'm, yeah, we should carry Katie's motion forward. So I'm Mr. Stembridge, maybe you should, you can support or not the motion. I'll support them. Okay, Mr. Valencia. Yes. Is we well? Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Is better for us. I'm, I was a role supporter of the project, but I have to agree with Katie. I do think that it could be both and, meaning you can have a commercial kitchen and also offer something very generous to the public, which is a great dining experience, even if it's six or eight people. So with that, I'm going to say yes. Mr. Turner? Yes. Chair votes, yes, the motion carries. Thank you. Next, we have case B.O.A. 1732693 with the address of 372 K Street. Is the applicant the android of every cent of the present with their plea for plans on the board? Yes. Thank you, Mr. Stembridge, Madam Chair, members of the board, Attorney Ryan Spitz with Bounds of Merancy, business address of 168 A Street, First floor, Salt Boston. Joining me today is the owner, Tom Sullivan, as well as the project architect Nick Landry. This is a proposal to change the occupancy of a one-family dwelling to a five-unit residential building by way of dormers, to an existing structure, a rare addition, and an interior renovation with garage parking for four spaces in the room. All of the residential units will be home ownership. This proposal is located within an MFI sub-district. Although the proposed use is allowed, the lot size is 4,292 square feet, which creates the need for additional lot size. However, this type of proposal is similar, and tonight it's, you know, too many surrounding multifamily properties in Salt Boston. Due to the alteration of the roof line and extension into the rare yard of over a thousand square feet will require two conditional use permits for a roof structure restriction violation. There was also a third conditional use permit cited for another roof structure restriction based on max allowed height and sub-district. The proposed height is 35 feet six inches, which is below the 40 foot requirement under Article 68. We believe the plans of Dayman cited this in error due to the raising of an existing garage in the rare, but the demolishing of an accessory use building does not trigger relief for a conditional use permit under Article 68. Unit 1, if the Mr. Ambassador, if you could just scroll, that would be great. Unit 1 will be a duplex unit located on the ground floor in basement with an estimated square footage of 1,839 square feet. Unit 2 will also be a duplex unit located on the second floor and third floor with an estimated square footage of 1,44 square feet. Unit 3 will also be a duplex unit located on the ground floor in basement with an estimated square footage of 917 square feet. Unit 5 will be on the third floor of the addition with an estimated square footage of 1,351 square feet. And so will unit 4 will be located on the second floor of the addition with an estimated square footage of 1269 square feet. There are total of 2 1 beds, 2 2 beds and 1 3 beds. Procting will be located on the ground floor in the rear of the property. We have additional violations for open space for required to provide 200 square feet per unit and the proposal calls for 100 square feet per unit. Contextually many lots on the block provide less than 100 square feet per unit. In sufficient radiate, 24 year radiate setback is required and this proposal calls for a 10 foot radiate setback. However, currently present on the site which abuts the property so this proposal we believe would be an improvement on the existing condition. And two more violations related to parking. In sufficient parking, 1.5 parking spaces required for new units of housing. Therefore the parking requirement is 6 parking spaces and the proposal provides a 4 which is aligned with the transportation departments policy reducing dependency on private vehicles. Further there is the last violation regarding parking for design of the parking as the dimensions propose a 9 by 18 feet. I do have projects, architect, knee injury, if there's any specific drawings that you need him to discuss. But at this point I'm going to turn it over to you Madam Chair for any questions or comments. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? Hearing none, ma'am. Good afternoon Madam Chair and board members. Sigi Johnson with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. As applicant completed the ONS community process, our office hosted a new butters meeting on July 9th at which no concerns were raised. Multiple butters were supportive of the proposal. They spoke highly of the character of the petitioners. The gate of heaven neighborhood association is in support of this application. Without background our office deferred judgment to the board. Thank you. Hi Madam Chair and members of the board. This is Sydney Scanlon from Councilor Flynn's office. Councilor Flynn would like to go on record and support based on a good community process and support from neighbors and of butters. Here's respectfully request that the proponent continue to work closely with the community on any neighborhood and quality of life issues that may arise during the construction phase and thereafter. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, we don't have a additional e. Can't spray something on it. Okay. Would that may have a motion? A motion for approval with a proposal that plans to submit to the plan for a design review with attention to preserving significant architectural details from the existing structures couple on the front facade. Is there a second back in Mr. Stembridge? Yeah. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Mr. Rueow? Yes. Mr. Langham? Yes. Mr. Berraza? Yes. Mr. Turner? Yes. Chair votes yes. The motion carries. Thank you. Next we have two companion kids with three companion kids. And these are our play on the road play. First we have case B0817470 with the address of 200 Hill Sun Street. Along with that we have case B081758534 with the address of 44 pocket hill that we know. Along with those three we have case B08174808 with the address of 40 pocket hill happen. If the applicant and the representative present will they please explain some more. Thank you Mr. Stembridge. Good afternoon Madam Chair and members of the board. Attorney John Colgini here on behalf of Savage Properties LLC for the proposal at 200 Hillside Street. With me this morning is Alex June from Monty French Design Studio, the project architect. So 200 Hillside Street also notice 36 pocket hill street. A lot size 25,411 square feet zoning is 3F 2000. This lot is located at the corner of Hillside and pocket hill street in Michigan Hill. 200 Hillside is an article 80 small project approved by the BPA in April of this year. To propose before you was to combine the existing vacant 200 Hillside 200 Hillside under utilized parking lot with the abouting 40-44 pocket hill have lots. We have a couple of two multi-family residential buildings and construct a 5 story 38 residential rental building. The two buildings at 40-44 pocket hill remain in the current condition each have at 16 residential units. The combining of 40-44 pocket hill and the 200 Hillside lot will be accomplished through the two ALTs which Mr. Stembridge just referenced. New building will have a mix of 22 studios and 16 two beds. Six of these will be offered as IDP units. There will be 38 residential parking spaces, the turnels to the building and also eight guest parking spaces on the outside of the building. Additionally, the existing parking lot will be redeveloped to include eight parking spaces, all amenities to this new building are intended to be shared among the residents of the three other buildings. We will also include the two buildings at 40-44 pocket hill and the two other buildings at 40-44 pocket hill. As I state this was an article 80 proposed to the went through a full community and administrative process. Through that process the address was changed to 200 Hillside as a community, one of the residential entrance on hillside rather than pocket hill. The area is now in easement on our property to allow widening of sidewalks to comply with the complete streets policy and a high visibility crosswalk to improve pedestrian safety. This location is certainly a TOD development with the green line approximately two minutes away and finally we have provided the board with approximately 60 lettuce. You're essentially providing 38 units of additional housing, including 64 of the units with absolutely no displacement. I will now pass it off to Alex to go through the plans and more detail will be happy to answer any questions that you have. Thanks for the opportunity to present Alex. Please keep that high level Alex. Thank you. Yes. Good afternoon. I'm sure members of the board. I will keep a brief. We can just briefly go stay on the first page. I'll just describe. This is the new addition with the two existing brick buildings just peeking beyond behind the new trees that we're proposing on our property in the background on the right of the image while in the foreground we are proposing three new street trees with a pedestrian easement as John mentioned that will allow for the complete streets compliance. The building is mostly especially this corner masonry with varying degrees of orientation and articulation, middle panel in the front while the top portion has been made lighter and set back using a larger format panel. I'll just briefly go over the site plan to describe some of the improvements that we're making. We've part worked with the community feedback as well as the Boston planning extensively to look at the streetscape and open space can go to further to more down. Yes, this one the two existing buildings at 4040 Parker Hill will be existing to remain but we did work with the planning department to work on providing accessibility throughout the site with the existing parking as well as a shared courtyard which is in the top. The rear portion of this page that will be connected down to the existing right away which is a sidewalk down to our new building from which at the building corner we have an accessible building that will carry residents from both 40 and 40 Parker up to the new top as well as being able to access the new fitness inside the new building. In addition to the three new street trees in the corner we are renovating the open space front yards of 40 for Parker Hill as you can see with some landscaping and four new street trees in that sorry all new trees on our property and with that I'll turn over the board happy to answer any questions. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? You're in that man public testimony? Yes, Madam Chair members of the board, Conor Newman with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. At this time of May I was offered to defer to the judgment this board. So back information in the community process as went through a BPA led community process starting back November of 2024 before being board approved in April 10 to 2025. During that period there was a public meeting as well as engagement with other stakeholders. We're talking about the public and the public and the public and the public and the public and the public and the public and the public and the public and the public and the public and the public and the public and the public and the public and the public and the public and the public and the public and the public and the public and the public and the public and the public and the public and the public and the public and the public and the public and the public and the public and the public and the public and the public and the public and the public and the public and the public and the public and the public and the public and the public and the public and the public and the public and the public and the public and the public and the public and the public and the public and the public and the public and the public and the public and the public and the public and the public and the public and the public and the public and the public and the public and the public and the public and the public and the public and the public and the public and the public and the public and the public and the the public and the public and the public and the public and the public and the public and the public and the public and the public and the public and the public and the public and the public and the public and the public and the public and Thank you. Good afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is Ebne Deroza and I'm a senior project manager in the development review division of the planning department. The project before you was approved by the BPA Board on April 10, 2025. The project underwent an appropriate article 80 review for its size and impact, which included extensive collaboration with the planning department, Councilor's Office and the community. I thank you for your time today. Thank you. Thank you. There are no additional comments. Okay. Good afternoon, motion. Motion of approval. Second. Thank you. Mr. Stembridge. Yeah. Mr. Valencia. Yes. As we well. Yes. Mr. Wynam. Yes. Mr. Brasa. Yes. Mr. Brasa. Yes. Mr. Brasa. Mr. Brasa. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. The motion carries. Thank you, everybody. Enjoy the rest of your day. Thank you. Thank you. Next, we have case B.O.A. 146-5030. With the address of 434 Lee, Water Street. It's the applicant and the representative of the president. Please respond in case you don't work. Hi, my name is Alice. My husband and I was in the club with, I know for some reason, we kind of split like into work and like don't see him on the line. But again, this is for a basement construct that is going on since 2018. He's trying to get the license to, you know, finish the basement. But, you know, we had submit for a balance meeting because it's a CDO initially wants him to install a kitchen and he does not want to do a kitchen. So this process has been going for quite a while. And we just want before this board and asking if he can get the license to finish the basement. Thank you. So can you just confirm? This is, you're not creating a new unit. This is part of your current living space. Correct. Okay. Questions from the board? Here. All right. Hearing none, public testimony. Madam Chair and members of the board, the record, my name is Jeremy Bembery. I'm the judge, I'm the Community Teen Agency, the Office of Neighborhood Services. The applicant has completed the community process, which consists of a boaters meeting facilitated on June 5th. Very lightly attended with no opposition, no concerns raised at the meeting. Following the boaters meeting, no further community process was required and the proposal was approved to go for this on the board. Thank you for your time and the mayor's office of neighborhood services. We'd like to defer to the board for their judgment. Thank you. I do actually have a question. I want to confirm that the basement. Oh, God. Can the applicant respond to that question? I have the basement. You know, apparently I'm not too familiar with this dimension measurement. That's why I was hoping that he stayed on the call. But I, for some reason, I don't know how he got disconnected. We've been on since 1130. And I mean, as you did mention here, I'm not just familiar with the, you know, the grant for the plan kind of thing, but. Is there an elevation view? Because now we're looking down on it. Is there a way we're looking up at it? And Ms. Turner, we could also address that through the recommendation. There is a right there. It says seven foot. Seven foot to the end of half. I think it says. So it's below the building. Yes. Thank you. Okay. Any other questions from the board? May I have a motion? I'll make a motion to approve it with a provisional that the basement. It stands up to the building code, which is seven foot six foot higher. Is there a second? That can't. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Ms. Weewall. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Lina. Yes. It's better browser. Yes. Ms. Turner. Yes. Chair votes yes, the motion carries. And next, we have case viewway. The motion is the motion. The motion is the motion. One, seven, four. Eight, seven, five, nine. The address of six Almont Street. Is the applicant in the representative of the public. They please explain to the board. Yes. We have the Robert Lenkiss. I seem to be in the invitation. Hello. Hello. I'm so sorry. Mr. Stembridge, I just came running from a meeting. Mike Ross. Here when I'm when you're ready for me. We're ready. Okay. Matt, Chair. Members of board, this is Attorney Mike Ross. Here with the welfare of Prince O'Bale, one international place. I'm here with the architecture project. A gullus, manion and Kyle, Tonro, Torno. As well as the local development team. Which is comprised of 100% minority developers. And local. The proposed project is to build a 13 unit rental building. That given the topography of the land. And the abiding conditions of the surrounding buildings. And the building was designed to fit within the site. Mr. and Patrick, you probably go to the fourth page. I need to recuse myself. Okay. We are a six number board. Okay. We will proceed. Thank you. So this slide here, the project summary side would be great. Six deaths, eight all Mont St. Is within the R1 district. But it sits at the intersection of and as partially surrounded by. S L and S two sum districts. It evokes a 12 unit property to its left. And is across the street from a 24 unit property. The project sits near a prominent intersection with blue hill Avenue. And is readily visible from that corridor on a kind of the large outlet. And with of the street opening itself. Next slide please. While the proponent. Progo by the proposed project contains 13 units from a massing perspective. It will fit comfortably within its surround. The height of the proposed project is designed to meet the point of the current. The top most point of the current gable proof as shown here. The larger area of photo in the lower left corner. Of this slide. Also shows the proximity of this project to. Almont Park, which features a very large parking area. You can see the photo and. We're residents are able to park overnight. Next slide please. As this slide shows, the project is located within a transit rich. Area with a 10 minute walk to Madapet square. T station and a seven minute walk. To the commuter rail station. So as such, the project contains no on site parking. Next slide please. We can come back if you'd like, but on that slide, just really quickly, the relief we're seeking. We're only seeking four variances. The number of units. We're going to be in parking. Next slide please. This slide shows how the proposed project on the right actually sits further back from the. Where are we? PGA. Right there. It actually sits further back from the existing current building. The dotted red line there on the right shows where the existing porch sits just ahead of. The current proposed project. Next slide please. Or I'm sorry. Mr. Best, just one. If you could go back up there. Right there on the profile picture on the bottom of the slide. It shows that the front portion of the building is consistent with the existing zoning height limit of 35 feet. There is a slight step up of just less than five feet. We are going to be able to accommodate the rear units which step back substantially from the sidewalk to reduce any visible visual impact. But also step back from the rear lot line. To reduce any impact from any of the adjacent properties behind. It's worth noting that the mean height of the property is in fact 35 feet. You'll also see here the extreme rise of topography of the hill behind the proposed building, which allows the rear butters to not have. Their views, their light, their air block by what we're proposing here. Next slide please. These are floors. Garden. One, two, and three. Which will provide provide for one studio. Three one bedrooms. Seven two bedrooms and two three bedrooms. The studio is five hundred forty seven square feet. The one ranges from five hundred sixty nine to eight hundred thirty seven square feet. The two range from seven fifty nine to fifteen forty three square feet. And the three is from eleven oh four to fourteen oh six. Next slide. The property is that's the idea. The property sits on a six thousand one hundred seventeen square foot lot. And exceeds the permeability or requirement of twenty five percent with thirty six point five percent permeability. It also proposes solar panels on the roof, various plantings and landscaping along the side of the building. Replacing the current driveway and the fully compliant with a. I mean the site I'm sorry the side landscaping will place the existing driveway. And there's a fully compliant rear yard setback that now allows for an area to grill and gather. The proposed project will include both indoor and outdoor bicycle parking. Each with charging stations for electric bicycles which are becoming more prevalent. Next slide please. So this shows a three dimensional drawing from the front of the building and the rear corner of the building. As you can see almost all the units contain some form of exterior features such as the Julia balconies and the full decks. Of the two three bedroom walk up units off the rear of the building. Next slide. The slide and the side elevation show how the topography allows for slightly more height that we're proposing and also shows more exterior decks off the side of the building. Next slide please. This is the front and rear elevations. This is a sectional again showing the topography and how the units line up. This is another sectional. These are two renderings of the building. The second rendering nicely shows how the proposed building is designed to sit not tall than its neighbors. I either side of the bench or just go down one one slide if you could. Just look how this building sits in tucked in between the two neighbors on either side. Like I said earlier, it's designed not to be taller than the topmost cable of the existing. I'm just sort of I'm interrupting but this rendering is showing that the first floor is almost as high as the cows. Do you think this is the right, the trend that has the right dimensions? You know, it's a rendering so there's going to be a little bit of warbles there. But what you see there is all these houses are not all these houses but the older houses that were built on the street, they are built on top of the slope of the land. This house we go into the land. So we use that where the where the slope was. We use we dig that out and we create that as the entrance to the building. And that's that's why we're kind of able to bring things down. Okay, thank you. Yeah, sure. Happy to talk more about it. And you know, actually we can probably pause there. I wanted to just make sure the board is aware that we submitted letters support from the Colorado Street Neighborhood Association, City Council of Kenya. And then as well as three of the at large city council. I'll pause there. Madam Chair. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Yes, if approved, are you providing any IDP units? Yeah, yes, we are. We are and so we have 13 units. Sorry. So that would be two units providing will be affordable. I have a lot of them. And there will be rentals. So those will have to be consistent with article 79 average at 60. Am I. Any other questions from the board? Is Mr. Hampton on to weigh in? Yes, thank you Madam Chair. I'm just a board Jeff Anthony City of Austin Planning. And I'm just a little bit more interested in the board was with denial. The reason being that as you are aware, Matt, again was recently rezoned back in February of last year. And the purpose of this zoning district was to help maintain and preserve. Small scale residential characters of the street. And Mr. Ross has stated that the accounting property in the one across the street are, you know, larger number unit structures. That those are pointing on to the lab and are in a different zoning district altogether. So we do not support the tearing down existing two family and going up the 13 units, especially with the new zoning that was adopted back in February of 2024. So City of Austin Planning. Is it not recommended that not. Is there a public testimony? Madam Chair and members of the board for the work. My name is Jeremy Vibbery. I'm the Madapet and Community Engage and Specialist for the Office of the Labor Services. The applicant has completed the community process which has been system of a likely attended a budget meeting for self-taught non-Jew and 23rd. Where what is voice opposition and concerns about his voice opposition to more constructions that there's already too much construction on the street. As well as the general area, but is also opposed to the increased density and lack of parking as part of the plan for 13 units. Voicing their concerns over congestion. Next to the component presented to Colorado Street Community Group where they voted in support of the proposed. To date our office has received one letter of opposition from the Greater Madapet neighborhood council opposed to the exceeding of the net of the zoning code. Dimension of requirements suggesting a smaller proposal would be more acceptable. Our office has also received a 43 signature of petition of support in seven letters of support six of which are from city officials and organizations. Those are the Madapet Community Center Colorado Street Community Group and city officials Henry Santana and Regate Peppin, Julia Meier, Rufusio, Ruth Z. Dugin. Again those are the letters of support. Thank you for your time and the mayor's office of neighborhood services. We'd like to defer to the board for dinner. Thank you. Okay, next we have Cindy Jekyll. Hello, can you speak again? Hi, I'm Cindy J. Mrd. My name is Cindy J. Mrd. I'm from the cast's communications office. We would like to go to the support. This project as we did not receive any consent from complain about it or request that we don't support it. So we'll go ahead and defer to the board. Thank you. So I'm chair. And there are no additional, not one second please. Thank you. We have Anthony J. Larry. Good afternoon, men. Chairmen, this is the board. Here's a joy to hear from city council. Aaron Murphy's office. The council like the con record and support of the project. Thank you. Okay, without, there are no additional comments. Okay, give them a phone. Do you know? Okay, I'll go ahead and share those with the board. Okay, hearing none is there a motion? Morning, your room. Is there a second? And I am the provider of non-share. Mr. Simbrezh, I'm the provider for the group. I'm going to execute a house agreement with the mayor of the office of housing for two affordable units with an I will as of 60% AMI. Mr. Stombridge, are you menable to that? Yes, I am. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Stombridge? Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Ms. Riewell? I'm going to vote. No. I appreciate the programming and the housing and the affordable units. I just can't get past that the lot of coverage is almost double. What is allowed as a right and I don't think this quite fits on this site. Mr. Langham? Yes. Ms. Mabarazzo? She would be accused of sales. Oh, sorry. Ms. Harnoff? Yes. The chair votes no. So the motion does not carry. I'm sure but help if I did a round of Explanations on some of the comments or would you like me to just stick quiet here? I will allow it briefly. Thank you I first I do see that there is a nearby residence hand up. The other thing I would just say is that in terms of the Comment that mr. Hampton made we are We are in our our district as opposed to an S district I don't think we would be here if we were proposing We wouldn't be proposing variances to the S they are only allows for what was there previously? We are in a transition in that we are surrounded by these other These other sub districts, so I think there might be reason there to consider that and I think those were the key The key points oh, yeah, I'm sorry. There was one other was trying to for time We yes, there's 13 units But the old you know doorchester housing stock what you see there with you know seven eight bedrooms It just doesn't exist any or so a triple dagger with seven or eight bedrooms could literally be a 13 unit Building if there are 13 ones It's just it's just a different type of housing no one's looking for seven area better. So I okay. Thank you Okay, let's try again Is there another motion Okay Okay, I'm gonna make a motion of then I'll be a play you this so the proponent has time to preconceil the proposal and the identity Is there a second second? Mr. Stembridge Yeah Mr. Valencia. Yes, miss we well. Yes, Mr. Langham Yes Mr. Turner. Yes, the chair votes. Yes, the motion carries Thank you Thank you. Thank you everyone. See you next time have a good day. Thank you. Bye You You