 you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you is it I will turn it over to Mr. Stappridge. Thank you, Madam Chair. We will start with the extensions for question nine, at nine journey. I'll read the first two in together. Their bill is easy and then read the others separately. The first case, the first one is case B.O.A. 1-1-4-4-1-2-1. The address of 405 Washington Street. Along with that, we'll consider case B.O.A. 1-2-1-5852. The address of 892 Broadway. 405 Washington Street. The lease was originally granted on September 17th, 2021. And remains valid until September 17th of this year. The applicant had requested a one-year extension until September 24th. Preventation is a point grant. It will file appropriate to submit. Any questions on that one? Why don't you read them both into the record? Okay. Next one for 892-1-892 Broadway. Or originally granted. This one on September 3rd, 2021. So it will remain valid until September 3rd, 2023. The staff gets the stalls are there. So it will be valid until September 3rd, 2024. And basically, the recommendation will be valid until September 3rd, 2024. Okay. May I have a motion? Namshan, make a motion for approved extensions. Hello. Yes. How long will you sit? September 17, 2023. Just on the rules the same. Is that work? You can make a motion to approve the date that they requested. I think they're. Okay. September. Yeah. 17th. 17th. The other. Yes. All right. I see a nod from Mr. Valencia. May I have a second? Yes. Mr. Stambridge. Yes. Mr. Berraza. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. As we will. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Here also votes yes. Motion carries. Thank you, Madam Chair and boy. Attorney Feaster. Thank you as well. Attorney George Small. Okay. Excellent. Thank you. Mr. Stambridge. We move on to the next case, which is the OA 897172 with the address of 509 East district. Board of originally granted this relief on June 14th of 2019. We have remained valid until September 19th of 2022. The board made the first extension of this relief until September 19th of this year. The outfit is now seeking a second extension for the relief until September 19th of 2024. The recommendation is to prove the extension. What's anyone has any questions? Any questions on this? Boarding. Okay. Hearing none, can I have a motion? I make a motion to grant the extension to September 19th, 19th, 2024. And have a second? Second. Thank you. Okay, Mr. Stambridge. Yes. Mr. Berraza. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes, ma'am. As we will. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Next, we have case of the OA 9196 earlier with the address being 2537 fine foot street. The OA 9196 is the first extension of this relief until June 14th, 2019. The first extension of the relief until June 14th of 2022. The board ran the second extension of this relief until September 19th, 2023. The third extension of relief until September 19th, 2024. Recommendation is for grant the extension of the foot program. And if there are any questions on the map. Is the attorney present? Yes, I am Madam Chair. Good morning. My name is George Marriott. I am the county with Business Address of 350 West. I was in South Boston. As the Denver noted, this was originally approved by this board in 2019. My clients did not own the project this time. This was an article 80 large project. The 120 Ghost Street address is a companion matter with this. My clients have squintly purchased the project. I had to go back to the BPA and went through a notice of project change process. The BPA granted the project change, including the new ownership component on October 13th of 2022. Since that time, we have completed a affordable housing agreement, affordable housing rental agreement in restrictions. And a community benefits cooperation agreement of the BPA and November 17th issued a determination waiting for the review. They issued a partial certificate of compliance on June 6th of 2023. Considering all of the procedural matters we had to go through with the BPA, my clients would appreciate a one year extension in both this and what it went into the record the next matter. Mr. Stembridge, can you read the second case into the record as well? We have a companion case that Mr. Moran says referring to the BOA 919610 with the address of 120 Ghost Street. The same time frame here. The same time frame has the previous one is mentioned from 25. Any questions? Any questions? If not, can I have a motion? Manchell, make a motion to grant the extension until September 19th, 2024. Okay, I'm second. Second. Thank you, Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Berraza? Yes. Mr. Langham? Yes. Ms. We will. Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Next, we have case BOA 8778714 with the address of 72 Dresser Street. Board originally granted the gift for this on June 14th, 2019, and granted the first extension of relief until June 14th, 2022. However, that extension was unnecessary. The board ran the second extension of this relief at September 19th, 2023. The applicant was now seeking a third extension of relief until September 19th, 2024. It's recommended that the board grant the extension unless anyone has any questions. Is the applicant on? Good morning, Madam Chair. Turn your bad echo with fletch your tilt too. Any questions from Mr. Argo? Here none may have a motion. Oh, my good motion to grant the extension until September 19th, 2024. May I have a second? Thank you. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Ms. Berraza? Yes. Mr. Langham? Yes. Ms. We will. Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Good luck. Next, we have case B.O.A. 928836, the address is 28 Monuments Square. Board originally granted relief on September 20th, 2019. And granted the first extension of relief until September 20th, 2022. The applicant is now seeking a third extension relief until September 2024. With the applicant, like to explain, and were there any questions regarding this? Mr. applicant, may I ask you something? Mr. applicant, please. I'm not asking you anything. I'm not asking you anything. I'm not asking you anything. I'm not asking you anything. Any questions for Mr. Russ? During the name of motion? I make a motion of grant extension to September 2024. May I have a second? Thank you. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Ms. Berraza? Yes. Mr. Langham? Yes. Ms. We will. Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Thank you. Thank you. So as we move on to board final, our winner, I just want to remind folks we are in fact a six member board at this time. And by 220, we will become a five member board. So just as it heads up, thank you. So we are going to board final, offer to cases 930. First case we have is the away 835, 340. But the address of 883 high park avenue. It's the applicant and for their represent the present. For this case. Yes. We will. And you identify yourself and put your address into the record. Sean Murray. We are presenting 883 high park avenue. EVG Farms LLC. Okay. Welcome to your request, please. We initially, this denial from ISD was given to someone who was no longer part of our team. We are looking to change the name in order to pull our long form permit to the entity that holds the license for this address. Which is a change of use that was granted by the board two years ago. Okay. Any questions from the board? No questions. Yes. Mr. Stambridge. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. There are also votes. Yes. Motion carries. Thank you very much for your time. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Stambridge. Yes. Mr. Stambridge. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. As we go. Yes. Mr. Stambridge. Yes. Next we have case B.O.A. 113-2440 with the address of 133 board with the street. The applicant. And the representative present to explain the situation. Yes. Mr. Stambridge. Good morning, Madam Chairman. Mr. Board. Attorney Derek Small. The business stress of 51 Dops in the road. We have a report. Today we are here seeking to remove the proviso for hatch access to the roof. We met with the instructional services department. And they have determined that in order to issue a valid certificate block you can see. We need to remove the proviso and proceed with the existing headhouse. We also met with the BPDA. And they have signed off and agreed with us. With regard to the removal of the proviso. And that's where we are today. Okay. Can you remind us the height and the details of the other? The, the, the, the, it was a selling unit building with certain parking spaces and the height of the headhouse. This is approximately eight and a half feet. And it's a three-story building? That's correct. Any questions from the board? I do have questions. I think it's a four-story building. Is that correct? I'm looking at it. I'm Google. I'm two, three, four. There's four stories. Right? Okay. So do we have Jeff Hampton on the call? Yes, but it's better. Excellent. So I just have a kind of more of a BPDA question regarding its position on headhouses in East Boston. Do you, can you just let us know what your position is? No. No, we don't have a form. We're still dealing with this on a case-by-case basis. I know with this one in particular, attorney Small and myself, it talked about I know this would have been a building code issue. With the headhouse because it's four stories. Right. And we actually signed off on the plan showing a headhouse. Okay. So it was a problem because the that's why they went ahead and built it because the provisor did say to have a hatch. But I just wanted clarification. Yeah. Yeah, I wasn't worried. So we're okay with this. All right. That sounds good. And I noticed that the nearby properties mostly in their larger do have headhouses. But I just wanted to see if BPDA has kind of a position on East Boston with headhouses. Okay. So I'm going to have a question. I have no further question. I can perform a motion. Please do. Okay. Motion approval. I have a second. Second. Second. Mr. Stembridge. There you go. Sorry. Yeah. Thank you. Ms. Mediraza. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Ms. Wiewel. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Yes. Chair also votes. Yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Every month of the day. Next we'll move on to re-discussion. The 930. And we have case B08. Do you want to ask if anyone wants to do the furloughs, Mr. Stembridge? Oh, thank you, Madam Chair. At this time, could there be any of the three of you are already in the 930 timeframe? No. I have to be any request for hearings for the furls or withdrawals from the 930 timeframe. Sixth Brooks Street Madam Chair. Sorry. Any Jeff Dreyo. You folks are still a six-member board, correct? Correct. Okay. So six-brook Street, please. Mr. Secretary. Which is good. Or lemonade. We have that. I don't love any of it. Oh, I don't love any of it. Oh, I don't love any of it. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Okay. We're going to have to make you wait. That's okay. Anything else for the 930s? All right, Mr. Stembridge. Going back to re-discussions. Good job. Now, that is B08. 148. 4677. If you add your S109, brought through the avenue, it's the applicant and or their representative. For instance, which one? Yes. Madam Chair, members of the board, making King on behalf of the project at 109, Mother for Avenue. Hey, can you walk us through? Yes, ma'am. So starting with that first slide, just to kind of lay out the project for you, this is a proposal to erect an owner occupied three family home on a vacant lot in Charlestown. That sits in a 3F-2000 zone. I represent the fourth generation to grow up in Charlestown and as our family grows and housing prices increase, this project represents an opportunity to keep that family in town. As we walk through the project, you'll see a significant amount of effort went into the detail because I will be the owner occupying that third floor. Having grown up in the neighborhood, it's important to me that this structure blends in in the community and is really satisfactory to the neighbors. To kind of lay out the project for you, there will be one apartment on each floor. Each apartment consists of 1434 square feet of living space with two bedrooms, two and a half bathrooms in each unit. So if we can go back up one slide just briefly, I want to hit on the refusal letter and the notices that I received for the requirement for variances. I'm seeing variances for insufficient off-street parking, insufficient lot area, building height excessive due to the roof hatch, insufficient very hard, and insufficient open space. We can go down to the next slide. I'll walk through you briefly as they make sense. As you can see from the city of Austin, zoning viewer, the parcel in question is zoned as a 3F-2000 lot. The lot size is approximately 270 square feet. Short of the 3,000 square feet required by the zoning code for a 3F-HOME. However, the lot is actually a double lot and once housed two 3F-Houses, similar to the 3F-Houses immediately to the right. You can see on the map that one on nine weather for Avenue has a frontage of 39 feet, while the neighboring 3F-Houses have a frontage of only 17 feet. In both instances, the lot depth is exactly the same. Where these structures immediately are budding the proposed project, housed 3F-Homes on lots that are half the size. It is reasonable to grant a variance for this proposed 3F-HOME structure. The current proposal also provides only two bedrooms in each apartment. This consciously considers density and sets the far at 1.78, which is well below the maximum 2.0. Therefore, despite the 270 square foot shortage, the lot is sufficient size to house the proposed project and meets the general purpose of the zoning code without being imperious to the neighborhood. We could go down one slide to the proposed survey. Looking at the proposed survey, as you can see from the survey, the structure sits directly between the existing structures on the right and the left, with setbacks on either side that exceed the minimum side setbacks by the zoning code. To address the rear yard being insufficient, Article 62 table C sets the rear yard at 20 feet for a setback. Just to address the BPDA recommendation listed in their letter that the setback was actually 30 feet. I believe that was made in error, so I just wanted to point that out. So this lot actually qualifies under Article 62 Section 30-10 as a shallow lot by 5 feet, which allows for reduction in the rear setback by 30 inches, which actually requires a setback of 17 feet, 6 inches. As you can see from the proposed plot plan, the rear setback actually sits at 18 feet, 4 inches, with 8 feet of that base and 10 feet, of course, in the green state. For more of the decks, there's a foundation, which allows for a walkout basement. I believe that it's this foundation that is what necessitates the variance for an insufficient rear yard. If that is in fact the case, I've sought a little clarification in guidance on that, and I'd yet to receive it, but if that is in fact the case, I'm seeking relief for insufficient rear yard because the space below the deck would be otherwise unusable. So the extended foundation provides for a full-size door, and the added safety of a walkout basement. These characteristics meet the general purpose of the zoning code, and actually sits like in kind with the neighboring structures. If you look at that proposed plot plan, you can actually see that the rear setback exceeds that of the structure immediately to the right, and definitely exceeds the setback of those structures to the left. So if we can move down to the next slide, and then eventually to the rear elevations, the next thing I would like to address is the variance required for open usable space. So while we're seeking relief for open usable space, the plan provides for different types of open space. They're absolutely like in kind with surrounding structures. Each of the three apartments will have access to both private and shared open space, the proposed plans provide for approximately 405 square feet of communal green space, also provide for additional private deck space off of each of the apartments. There's also a prescribed roof deck in the plans. While currently the roof deck is listed as being accessible to the owner only, actually we can scroll down to the rear elevations. I am certainly amenable to making that roof deck accessible to all three apartments. As it sits right now, the order occupied third floor absolutely meets the required 350 square feet per apartment for usable open space. The first and second floor without access to the roof deck come to approximately 315 square feet of open usable space. So that is just 35 square feet short of the requirement. If that roof deck becomes accessible to all three apartments, the variance for the usable open space should not actually be necessary. I would also like to point out that the lot sits approximately 108 feet from a public park with a playground, tennis courts, and basketball courts. And just again, that the open space is likely to grind with all the neighbor constructors. We could scroll down slightly, keep going. There should be a parking slide. Yeah, this is perfect right here. Area of context is great. So there were a number of factors as we, as I kind of addressed the need for parking variance. There are number of factors that contribute to the decision to maintain a full size apartment on that first floor in Louis Parking. My architect and I felt that the installation of a garage door at the front of the structure was not in conformity with the adjoining street scape. By maintaining living space on the first floor, the front facade more appropriately reflects the historical nature of the neighborhood, which you can see on that right-hand picture, the roadhouses that are immediately to the right do not have garage doors. By adding parking to the first floor, it would also force construction on a slab and remove valuable storage space in the basement for both mechanicals and other types of storage, including bike storage. Finally, the lot size and shape really limit the number of possible parking spaces. The lot is not wide enough to park more than one or two cars, while still allowing for two means of egressing and mechanicals. Any available off-street parking would also be limited by maintaining a curb cut. The current plans prescribed for the return of a curb cut that is in that space to the community and provide for additional on-street parking. If you can go down one slide. When it comes to the density on the street, I am seeking, oh excuse me, the section of Brotherhood Avenue between Devons and Union Street is actually a 60-foot wide, one-way street with parking on both sides. Despite the street being wider than surrounding streets, it is considerably thinner in density than the rest of the neighborhood. More than half of the south side of the street has no residents at all, and it is comprised of small vacant blocks, a vacant home, and a repair garage. The remaining portions of the south side of the street is occupied by elderly housing. Many of them utilize the ride and do not own cars. Approximately half of the north side of the street is land owned by the side and rear of a church and does not have residential housing. Only one of the residential structures on the remaining half of the north side of the street offers off-street parking. As such, one of my Brotherhood Avenue also consciously considered density and limits the number of cars that would be necessary by this three-family home. I'd go down one more slide. Also, the location of the home lends itself to different types of public transportation. There is the Bunker Hill Community College MVTA stop that is only 0.3 miles from the front door. The number 92 bus stops just around the corner, and the area is also served as by Bluebike and Zipcar. Zipcar has a location only 0.1 miles away at the Bunker Hill Mall. Ultimately, the city is in desperate need of housing, the lack of density on this street, the lack of density in the proposed new construction, and the readily available means of ultimate transportation make this project right for a variance that results and adding additional housing without being injurious to this neighborhood. We can go back up to the elevation demonstrating the roof deck. As previously referenced, the plans provide for access to a roof deck. I'm seeking relief for the excessive building height due to the height of the roof deck hatch. It is our understanding that the hatch is the sole cause of the height violation. The hatch is a day lighter model that sits horizontally from the roof line. This particular hatch was recommended by the builder because it provides the safest means of ingress and egress without necessitating a full head house. The top of the stairway head house is five feet above the roof line and 40 feet from the ground. It is five foot seven inches from the front of the house and nine feet five inches from the right side of the house. The architect confirmed that the hatch height and distance from the front of the structure is in accordance with the requirements of Article 62, Section 25, allowing the board of appeals to grant permission for the stairway head house. Is it possible you're almost ready to wrap up or can you? I just hit my last point. My help and my architect are available for any questions. Excellent. Could you address a couple of points that have come up from the city side which are Chromecut since you won't have a parking spot. Would you parking spaces? Would you be amenable to be closing the curb cut? That's the first question. The second is a comment about ADA compliance that they're currently not in accessible entrance. I'm absolutely amenable to the curb cut. The proposed block plan should have demonstrated that and I apologize for that mistake. And the accessible unit? Accessible entrance. In terms of an accessible entrance, if you actually go back to the slide that says area context which should be down slightly. If you look at the up down, get right there. So if you look at all of the houses on this street to the right, they are all elevated slightly with that that have basement access. So in order to make an 80 or to make the first floor apartment and the basement area accessible, I would need to add an elevator. Given that it's just me trying to make this as affordable for myself and my family to live, it's certainly not a requirement of the fair asm. It's not a requirement for three units. So that comment is going to be a family off guard. Yeah, it's only the requirement for four or more. Exactly. Okay, opening it up to questions from the board. Okay, hearing none, may I have public testimony? Madam Chair, members of the board, Sean Green with the Mayors Office and the board services. And a butters meeting was held for one or nine route to fit out on June 28th. It was well attended resident head concerns with lots of talking and design of the proposed building. This office has received eight letters in support and three in opposition. With that, we would defer our judgment to the board. Thank you. I should call this to your hand. Is right. So you're looking to test money here? Shepal, Karen, ma'am, members of the board. Madam Chair, a land down in council of the others office. Our office received several of the support, one about our opposition, one letter of community opposition, and the council would like to go on record and support this project. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Yes, Karen. Yes, hi. My name is Karen Hart. I want to work for them. My concern is the parking. It's already very difficult to find parking on the street. And once the hockey ring opens, it's virtually impossible. It would be extreme problem for the street. Thank you, Miss Hart. Thank you. Any other raised hands? Yes. Hi, my name is Capitol Sergeant. I'm at one or seven, which is the lot directly, the house directly next to the lot for one or nine. And we submitted two from this household, two letters of opposition. And we have to go back to the last one. This project, the way the proposal currently stands for the size of it, it would very negatively impact our building. Our windows would all be, uh, the view would be ruined, the purchase. All people would be ruined. Just wanted to think for things like that. So we have to direct and make those strongly opposed to this proposal as it currently stands. Thank you. Kristen? Go ahead. Can you say your name and address and tell us that your group needs a photo opposition? Hi, Kristen. You're in Newton. Christina, sorry, Christina. Okay, you can't hear you. I have no additional raised hands. Uh, was that may I have motion? Madam chair, the BPD had a recommendation, correct? Well, yes, Mr. Hampton would like to read that into the record. Uh, thank you, Madam chair. I'm just a blow Jeff Hampton BPD. A, uh, to read the recommendation into the record. It was an aisle without, uh, one, sorry, that was the one. Uh, uh, tonight without prejudice, applicant should amend plans to minimize building size to mitigate the usable open space and rear yard violation, provide an accessible entrance to the first floor unit and accessible route to the shared storage area in the basement and closing existing curb cut. Um, if I could just really quickly, um, I think in that letter that, um, the, the, there was a misreading of the table for the rear yard size. The letter indicated that a 30 foot setback was required and it's actually a 20 foot setback. That is true, but it doesn't change our recommendation. Madam chair, I'll lead to the forward motion. Yes, ma'am. Okay. Um, I would like to support this project, um, given that it's providing housing for the city that really needs it. Uh, it would keep, um, the applicant and their family here. Um, and in terms of the side yard, um, you know, it's meeting the requirement for side yard. So with that, I would like to put forward a motion of approval with two proviso that BPD with BPD, did I review paying special attention to the exterior to work with the roll house, apology. And the second is to close existing curb cut. Yeah, the second. Second. Mr. Temperature. Yes. Is better browser. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Chair also votes. Yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you, Madam chair. Thank you members. Next. We'll move on to hearings. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. So, we kinda went through the demo and know, got a lot of that. We are within demo, all the existing floor decks in there too, that's the entire framing and I saw for the structure. If you want to go down a little further, on the next slide, You know, this also outlines the open cabeza, this showing basically again the finish lower level, and the rear dash that we are looking to add to the structure itself here. scroll down even a little bit further, just because I won't take up too much time giving insight on that. You can keep scrolling, please. This gives kind of a little bit of a 3D image of the building itself. So you can see the side decks here. Those are kind of talked into that little alcove structure of the building that's existing. And you can kind of get an idea where it would be for units two and unit three on the segment third floor. And then we can scroll down a little further. That's another image of the decks. And we can keep scrolling down. I think we might honestly just get to the framing plan. And not which just shows how we're going to see planning on framing out. I think if we keep going down, window well and then framing here. So this shows we actually where I mentioned all the old framing instead of sistering along to the existing framing. We're actually removing everything and installing IJs just a much safer product. And that does show a little bit of the frame plan for the decks there as well. And you can see the window well on a far left you can see what's a window well structure which would hopefully be part of the egress for the living space for the lower level. For plans wise and work, that's basically it. It came up in the community needing that those in opposition of this, the most concerned. I think with the lack of privacy that the decks would add to their own. And I know one a bunch of our mentioned safety concerns just with the building being so close and tight to their backyard with their daughter, Clevveys. A few noted wanting to make sure that any interior space was safe for any occupants that we were adding. Of course, they will be as far as window egress. And we are going to be doing the drag line sprinkler to the building. So in the event of any emergency, the building hopefully is meeting all fire and building codes as well. As for the safety concerns on decks, one of the residents that mentioned about the concerns with this daughter, we did say that the decks are 7 feet wide by about 14 feet long. And that we would be more than happy to remove about three feet or so off of that length of the deck just so that provides a little bit more separation from the back of the lot to his backyard. That should provide about, I think, almost four and a half or five feet of separation. And I'd say, you know, we do understand the only item that we haven't really been able to try to compensate for would just be the aspect of privacy between the understand because of the decks. All in all, I'm hopeful that polls are working for it. There's something that the board sees that doesn't really break from previously constructed items in the neighborhood as well as seeing it as something that's typical for these style buildings in Charlestown. And maybe not necessarily something that would be considered controversial that we're seeking. I will say living in the city, I do know, we do all know that privacy is tough to come by and it's tougher to lose. We do understand that in how important outdoor spaces as well. So that's something that's super important to us and especially with the aspect of having outdoor space for residents. We are pushing strongly to try to get this for the eventual people who will own these units. And just to lastly add the decks that we are proposing, they don't go beyond the original setback of the building and they don't go beyond the original side setback as well. They're kind of perfectly tucked into that alcove area so they are kind of tucked within the existing envelope of the structure that's on the lot. I guess that's kind of it. Hopefully I didn't ramble too much here. But one are occupied or rentals. These will be owner occupied. Okay. A question from the board. The only question I have is for Jeff Hampton, who BPA, BPA mentioned design review, which it seems like the project is minor in terms of just really adding the side decks. Seems like everything is pretty within the footprint. Yeah, we're looking at permeable species. Okay, is that something that is on the, is it the design review and? Yes, ma'am. Yeah. Thanks. Any other questions from the board? Can we get public testimony? Madam Chair, members of the board, Sean Bremuth, the mayor's office in neighborhood services. I know, but his meeting was held for 38 Austin on August 8th. It was well attended. Residents had concerns with the size of the proposed project privacy and the work being done on the current building. ISD did go by, I think about three times. Instead of the work being done currently, is within the scope of what they're allowed to do. This office has received six letters in support and eight in opposition. With that, we would defer our judgment to the board. Okay. I'm Keel Hanesway, Jack Collagen. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board, Elaine Dunnathan, with Council Colleges Office. Our office has received only letters of opposition and the Council would like to go on record as opposed to this time. Thank you. Thank you, Jack. The opportunity to speak in opposition to this 38 Austin street of appeal, I am the direct butter, the Jeremy Reffrance, in his testimony, I live at 33 Cook Street, our home was built in 1850 and 38 Austin backs directly onto my property, so we share our entire way of law line to share. While I appreciate the outside investment into the Charleston community from real estate developers, like Mr. Steve Aleda, the requested exemption and really specifically, the rear-facing decks is extremely problematic for my family and also for many other members of the community who wrote letters and took time away from work today to speak in opposition. The testimony of Mr. Steve Aleda highlights the importance of outdoor space. I think an important detail that was excluded from testimony was the existence of an interior shared stairwell that was already in the building prior to Mr. Steve Aleda purchasing the building. That shared stairwell, like many multifamily unit homes in Boston and in Charleston granted access to the shared roof decks for all three units. The decision to remove the stairwell is one that is reasonable in my view, as it's personally my view that Mr. Steve Aleda can seek to use whatever existing footprint to his development plans. However, to state that we need to add to rear-facing decks that are approximately a hundred square feet in the proposed plan is completely over the top and invasive to not only my property, but the other of letters at 35 cook street, wrote letters in opposition, as well as Jeanette Prendable, who hopefully will hear from shortly, the owner of 31 cook street in the lot at 36, Austin. I think there's two photos. Madam Chairman, can I ask if it is? Oh, no, sorry, it was a meeting. Got a check, do you want me to keep on, ma'am? Just a fast, I'll wrap up. In addition to safety concerns from falling objects, we have fire risk concerns due to illegal use of gas gruel usage, also privacy noise, and of course property value as this fundamentally changes the profile of our homes. I submitted for area context photos that show that these decks end two feet from my yard and only 20 feet from my daughter's bedroom in our bathroom, and I would request that those photos be shared on the screen so that the board can have the phone share. If they were emailed to the ZBA input, we received it, thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, I'm going to Jen. And please add new information. Yes, hi, it's Jen, how early can you hear me? Yes, ma'am. I'm at 31 Austin Street, I'm actually home today. Is there a way that you can show my video screen so I can show you exactly what I'm talking about today? We can't share screen with you. We hear them, they're chucking wood out of the second floor window onto the sidewalk. This is exactly an example of the type of neighbor that we have been dealing with in their attempts to rebede this home. So I just, I wish I could show it to you. But obviously, the way that this has been handled, the fire department out here with a big giant red X due to the unsafety of the property, it's really just not when an outside developer comes in and does this in our neighborhood. It's very unfortunate. The other things, I'm going to defer to Jack and Jeanette and 35, there was the people that are directly impacted by those side decks, which only faced Jeanette and his property. It's not like they face anything that isn't private. The other thing talking about traffic density, we on Austin Street are on one side at street. Since I moved here in 2002, my husband and I have described it as the wall of cars. There is literally on her, never a parking spot. And so to add, they're asking for existing spaces well per square footage. To add those additional vehicles is really something that needs to be considered in connection with the privacy aspect. And I would, they did this and they didn't have the proper permits. And now they're actually working this. They should have done it before. They started building. And I have to respectfully request that these zoning variances be denied. They weren't given the property. Thank you. OK, and not to try that no additional waste hands. Thank you. OK, any other questions from the board? I believe Jeanette Findola is on the line and would like to speak. And as she's directly about a missed property as well, I would ask that she be unmuted. She needs to raise her hand. Michelle, she did it. She did it. You have me. Great. I got her. You met her. You met her? Yes. Yes, ma'am. Good morning. Yes, I am an abotter right beside him. And I admit Jeremy, when he first came out here, and of course, you know, we really, it's nice to have someone that wants to repair and make that look really nice. We're not against that. It's all of a sudden. I told him when I first met him, he talked about Jackson's son. And he said, look, I said, I don't believe that. So I didn't get in a bottle at all when he was discussing it. And I thought you broke this on your points of opposition. OK. The decks are huge. They look into my house. I have a minor child here, a girl, that, you know, it's very uncomfortable. We have to keep our blinds down and shade them. And this here, there only is so many feet away. And it's terrifying to know that you can't move around. They sound like they're in your house. I just feel that he didn't want to work with us to even make the decks smaller or keep the pub with the roof deck that everyone else used. And I just feel that he's overstepping his bounds. He didn't want to work. Thank you, Michael. We understand. Thank you. So I look at which to address the deck issue. And you mentioned potentially shrinking your decks. Comment? Yes. We would be happy to shrink the length of them. I think the appeal we're seeking is for the rear yard and sufficient because they do come with them. I think I might be 20 feet is what's owning what allowed. We have no problem shrinking them in. And I think I mentioned, you know, the decks are 7 by 14. They're 14 feet long. Happily chopping off three feet of that, as much as one thing it interferes with the door. So I think they'd end up being 7 by 11. We could go 7 by 10. I'm completely open to doing that. I think I hadn't mentioned that before. Any other questions from the board? Can I have a motion? Madam Chair, I'd like to put forward a motion to approve the two proviso. The first one being BPDA design review, with special attention to be given to increasing permeable surface area on the site, and the size of, and to look at the size of the deck, with potential screening, and the second being that we don't look at relief. So just to be clear, you're leaving it to the BPD's discretion on the size of the deck, or you're just going to provide the on the size of the deck. No, I'm leaving it to the discretion of the BPDA to look at the sizing of the deck with potential screening. May I have a second? A second. Mr. Stauberidge? Yes. Mr. Berraza? Yes. Mr. Langham? Yes. Ms. Weow? Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Chair votes, yes. The motion carries. I hope the applicant will work with his neighbors on the size of that deck. Thank you. Next. Wonderful. Thank you. The deck is next. We have case B.O.A. 144. 3, 3, 3, 9. With the address of 228 to 230 French Street, I can see applicant and the weather that represent the presence to explain. Hand out. See your hand is raised. Are you here? Mr. Berraza? Hello? Hello? I am. If you think, and we can't hear you. Is anyone else on? Can you raise your hand if you're on for this proposal? A second. I'll put your hand down. Now just to hand, Mike? You're giving, but flashy. Fetchy? Look. Hello? Hi. My name is Mike McKay. I'm the project architect. Graven County is the owner and developer of the property. And I thought he was going to be beyond. But I'd just like to quickly present our project. We're proposing to demolish a two-story brick building adjacent to a new six-story hotel at 234, France Street. I propose a list of demolish that. And I figured it would be the next slide, please. And we're constructing a six-story, the ground floor would be a small retail space and with bike storage in the back, elevator. The variance that we're seeking is its special permit, actually, as a conditional use for the number of units. We're also in an SLR district. We've addressed that by raising the first floor. We're at elevation 19 now, instead of 18. The base elevation is 18. The strike has been updated. We'll go to the next slide. Typical floor plan. We are six units, six individual units that with the balcony in the back, we meet all others' own requirements. The only thing that we're seeking is the conditional use. But this is a typical unit plan to bedroom units. Facing on France Street is the living area. We'll get you out of the next slide, please. The next view are just the same units. We're also proposing a roof deck that will be common to the residents where within the height requirement to run under 80 feet. Again, gnashing the building next door. Next, please. Just the French redevelopation, the sides are budding properties. So there's one piece where there's a three-story building next to us. But there'll be a curtain wall. We're living here at the front. And the elevations we've raised to 19 to meet the requirements of the other one. That's just a quick presentation. I know that Grey is probably not listening, but you'll find him. I've finally got on. OK, there he is. Great. Anything you want to add before we open it up to questions? No, Mike, later on, right. I just want to say that I had a extensive neighborhood outreach. And we did talk to all the director butters at a neighborhood meeting, talked to the West End Civic Association, and downtown North Association. And it probably worked very well received. Just checking if Chris Salmanelli's on. I think this is a G-Cod. Is it? Yes. Yes, I'm getting in. I'm just going to the board. Chris Salmanelli, Boston, Grower Trust. And we have both G-Cod and us from the airport. Great. Thank you. Any questions from the board? I have one question. Yes, sir. What is the parking situation for this unit? Well, there's no parking requirements. And we actually looked into parking, but the site is so narrow. It's only 27 feet wide. That we couldn't really make the parking work with accessibility and all the staircases in egressing. Egressing, egressing. Egressing. May I have a public testimony? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board. We're calling our new in with the mayor's office of the Ambrampton Services. The Sunday air soft six deferred to the judgment of this board. Our office conducted in a butters meeting on March 21st. The applicant then went on to meet the West End Civic Association, which issued a letter of non-opposition. We're unaware of any major concerns. This time we'll defer to the board. Thank you. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. I'm Anna Calderon from Council of President Flink Sofis. The councilor would like to go on recording support based on group community process feedback from members of others and support letters from both the Downtown North Business Association and the West End Civic Association. Council of President Flink respectfully request that the team continue to work closely with the community on any quality of live issues that may arise during the construction phase. Thank you. Thank you. I'm not looking at panelists. Thank you. Jay, the world's part of the website. Good morning, Madam Chair. I'm Mr. Board of the Laws and the Affleaf for the Downtown North Association. We'd like to be recording in support of the project, Mr. McClutch, who presented his plans at a board meeting. Our guests did and were very enthusiasticly to support of the activation of this site on French Street. As the parking goes, it's one of the most well-served sections of the city for public transportation for the community. And that parking is not an issue at all. So thank you again for your time. Thank you. Bob? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board of all to make a B Today. I'm not opposed to the project, but I just suggest that he come up with a plan to show how they'll be loading and unloading and drop off and pick up residents of the building. And we'll be glad to work with him on that. So thank you. Yes, thank you. I want to show a very nice. OK, with that, may I have a motion? Can we include G Card in that motion, too? Yes, Madam Chair, I'd like to put forward a motion of approval with four proviso. One, that it undergoes BPD a design review and that it be designed within the historic context. Second, that it abides by the rules and regulations as noted in Article 25, Section 5, under the flood hazard district section of the zoning code. Three, that it undergo BTD review. And lastly, that it also be reviewed by Boston Water and Sewer Commission due to its location within the conservation, garden water conservation overlay district. OK, just to confirm, how many are, is this the appropriate place to include in approval? The G-Cock approval? They have the letters. I don't know if that's necessary. OK, for that. Yeah. Just confirming. All right, ma'am, second. Second. Mr. Stambridge. Yep. Mr. Berraza. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Ms. Lou Woh. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Chair, I also vote yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Thank you. Or, remember, Hansi, just to clarify, did you mean groundwater sewer or groundwater conservation of trust or G-Cock? Just to clarify. Just to clarify. For your last provide, you said water and sewer, is that, if you mean that? It was based on the BPDA, that the plants be reviewed by Boston Water and Sewer Commission due to its location and also potentially, that its locations within the groundwater conservation overlay district. So that's what I think of BPDA. And then my question, Hopier, was, since the groundwater already looked at it, is A, is that necessary, or B, should we be approving the G-Cock? That was my ask for that clarification. Yeah. I believe you guys approve the G-Cock. So if you want to keep that the provider, that's fine. So I don't think it's necessary, but that was made on the motion. So we can keep it as is. OK. All right. Next. Next, we have case VOA, 147, 8073, with the address of 526 East, 7th Street, with the applicant and the floor of the representative. First slide. Yes. Good morning, Madam Chair and Board Members. My name is Lauren Warrantwitch. I am the owner of 526 East 7th Street, number 2. And I'm here representing myself and the other two owners of this building. We are 100% on an occupied and long time residents of South Boston. To quickly summarize our project in 2021, we removed an existing roof deck to make repairs to our rubber roof. And last summer, we intended to replace our roof deck, which is when we found out that the prior roof deck had not been permitted. It existed prior to 2005, which is when I purchased my unit. And in addition, we have the support of the Director of Butters at 524 and 528 East 7th Street. And a white Arnie Bajard leaves on from that. They would be the ones directly affected by the insufficient side yard variance. This roof deck is the same size and in the same footprint as our prior roof deck. And we are only seeking to replace what previously existed. All right. Any questions from the board? Hearing none, may I have public testimony? Good morning, Madam Chair and Members of the Board. I'm Anna White with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. Ones hosted the Butters meeting for 526 East 7th Street and July 9th, 2023. Three Director Butters attended, and they all expressed their support. Ones has also received two additional letters in support as well. We're unaware of any community concerns. At this time, it takes your deferred judgment to the board. Thank you very much. Good morning, Madam Chair and Members of the Board. Anna Calderon, some kind of President Flint's Office. The councilor would like to go on recurring support as this is an existing roof deck in the installation of an unit without under with one third previously. He asked that the proponent be respectfully to neighbors in that the VAR and BPA will be very signed accordingly. Thank you. Madam Chair, the board also has a budget Michael Flaherry. Although there are articles 68 violations, this roof deck is it is a preexisting roof deck that is replacing the one there that being said in knowing no opposition. Councilor Conrad Smith, the board. And that chair I have no waste gifts. Great. Madam motion. Madam Chair, we make a motion to offer the project. Madam second. Back in. Mr. Stabbridge. Yes. Ms. Bad Baraza. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Ms. Wu-Woo. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Next we have a BOA 151-2482 with the address of 244 L Street. Is the applicant and for the representative. First one. Yes. Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board. Mark LeCast. LeCast lost 75 Arlington Street in Boston. Attorney for the project proponent who was represented by Matt Brett of Homegrown Builders. Also with us is Christopher Vance, the project architect. This is a proposal to raise an existing single family ranch-style house at the corner of L Street and Columbia Road in South Boston across from the Corona Recreation Center. The zoning code refusal letters before you and I'll go through those items right up front. It is very minimal zoning relief necessary in this case. The first item is a condition use permit for the provision under the South Boston zoning code that when you are demolishing an existing structure, the height of that structure is the presumptive height of the replacement structure, unless, excuse me, the board grants a conditional use permit to go higher. So the proposed building, as you'll see in the plans, is a three-story building which is 36 feet in height and less than the height allowed in that sub-district which is 40 feet and that is one of the items to consider when granting a condition use permit under that section of Article 68. The second item for relief is insufficient of myriad setback. This is a shallow corner lot along with but shallow in depth. 15 feet is required for the rear yard setback and the new structure is proposed to be 10 foot setback in the rear yard. Location of all front engines is not facing front lot line, was cited. The official address of this property is 244 L Street but again, as you'll see on the plans and the site plan, it's a corner lot. So essentially now it's frontage on both L and Columbia Road. So there are three individual townhouse entrances on Columbia Road and then on L Street, there's a separate entrance for four of the units. And lastly, this is funding on Dave Boulevard so it is within the Green Belt Protection Overlay District which requires a condition use permit in connection with the landscape plan which has been developed. On a prior refusal letter, ISD had cited the coast of flood resilience over late district. However, on the subsequent submission of revised plans, ISD noted that CFROD is in out the lower for new buildings of less than 50,000 square feet. Nevertheless, as you'll see and you'll hear from the architect, the lower level of the building has been designed in full compliance with that and serves solely as the parking area for the residential structure up above. Next slide please. That was just our submission letter with revised plans. There's the notation for no CFROD applicability. Here's the existing site plan. Again, you're probably familiar with the property if you've driven by it because it's that one house that doesn't look like any other house. It's a 1952 ranch style house that was built on this 10,000 square foot life or disabled veteran who was returning to the neighborhood and he resided there for many, many, many, many years until his recent passing at which time my client acquired the property. We already have a determination of no significance from the Boston Landmarks Commission under Article 75 giving us permission to raise the existing structure and utilize this very large 10,000 square foot car cell at the corner of L in Columbia Road for the construction of seven new units of housing. Again, three town house style frontier on Columbia Road and four in a building behind it, which is actually part of the same building. Next slide please. Here's the arrangement of the site plan for the new structure. You'll see the courtyard running down the middle and Chris Vance will explain that in more detail, but it is one building with one common garage below grade for parking for 14 vehicles and seven units. Shown on the front on the left hand side of the image is Columbia Road with the setback of 20 feet for each of the three front entrances, which corresponds to the alignment of the residences. As you go down Columbia Road, that was important to maintaining the rhythm of Columbia Road with a nice large setback and green front areas for each of the three town houses. And on L street utilization of the existing curb cut for the entrance to the underground parking garage and the entrance to that portion of the building, which has four units in the back part of the building will call it. Next slide please. Here's the below grade parking area. Again, 14 parking spaces for seven units does exceed that, which is required, 12 would be required by the code, but again, because designing the building to be fully compliant with the close of flood, resilience, overlay district, there's nothing but basement space, which exists anyway, because that's the footprint of the building, so we're able to utilize it for storage areas and the 14 parking spaces, which again was very important to the neighborhood. This is a tight area with very limited on street parking, so each of the units and their larger units will have two parking spaces. With that, the next couple of slides are going to be the floor plans and elevations of the building. I'll turn it over to our architect, Chris Vance, to explain the programming of the building. Thank you, Mark. Can you guys hear me? We can, if you can briefly walk us through that. That would be great. Thank you. Absolutely. Chris Vance, Vance Architects, the project architect of business address of 254 Bay Road in South Hamilton, Mass. So as Mark quickly walked you through the lower level here, we do have a partially submerged parking garage where we are providing elevator access and access. And two means of egress and stairwells. We want to go to the next slide. So here you're looking at the first floor living space to orient you quickly. Clumb your road on your right. We have three tri-level, townhouse-style condos. We have a living space on the first floor here and there are replicates of each other. On the left side of the site, which is separated by a courtyard. This courtyard provides private entrances for all the units at this first floor living space. We have unit 4 and 5, which is a one level two bedroom, two bath condo units. And you can see that the elevator services this floor with a common corridor accessing the courtyard. We're also providing a accessible ramp to the south side of the site, which you can see running along the building so that we do provide accessible access to the courtyard, which gives you accessible access. Not just by the elevator, but by means of ramp to access all the units at the first floor living space. Next, plan, please. So here we have the second floor. You can see this is the second level of the tri-level townhouse-style condos on the right side. Again, there's that separation between the two buildings, even though they're one structure and one building, but you'll see in the elevations the way that we designed it to help bring the mass end down. On the left side, you have a by-level unit 6 and 7, which are connected by an interstair. So these are by-level units of living space on this level with a bedroom. I want to go to the next floor plan. Here's the third floor. So this is the top level of both unit 6 and 7. And also the tri-level townhouses. We provide large outdoor balconies along Columbia Road, which will give you visual access and views to Dorchester Bay and Elstream Beach. And on the left side with the two units, we provide outdoor balcony space, again, trying to provide each unit with as much outdoor space as possible. If you want to go to the next slide. Here's the roof plan. We do have a headhouse strictly for access for mechanical systems that will be on the roof. There are no proposed roof decks. I want to go to the next slide. Okay, here this is the proud elevation looking at 244 Elstream. So as Mark had explained, we do have a curb cut that is reduced in size from the existing curb cut that was accessing the ranch originally. So here we have a 10-foot curb cut that would go down to the blow grade parking. That's on the left side of the structure. And the way that we took the design approach is we study the typology of the surrounding neighborhoods. And what we discovered is that there is actually a bunch of different typologies you have. Things from two and a half story, Gable roofed with stacked projected couches. We had traditional triple-fecker units with flat roofs. And we also had hit roofs with dormers. So there was a ton of typologies right at this intersection. So there wasn't a strong architecture type that necessarily informed our decision when coming to the final design. So what we did is we wanted to take that massing and keep it similar proportion to the surrounding neighborhood buildings. So instead of having one large structure, we broke it up into two segments, which you can see here on the L Street elevation. And we created a courtyard that divides the two structures that you have visual sightlines through the property and it brings that scale down. And we also took some of the scales of the adjacent properties along L Street and use that as our element for designing the buildings. We also used the Mansour roof. So even though it's a three-story building built upon a brick podium, it looks more like a two and a half story structure. So that Mansour roof helps really break down that scale and keep it appropriate to the neighborhoods. Next slide, please. So this is the side elevation between the adjacent property on L Street to the left of us. We do have an egress stair here. Next slide, please. Here we're looking at the rear elevation. So this is adjacent to our Columbia Road neighbor. And you can see how we stepped back the massing as we work our way up Columbia Road. And again, we provided the stacked porches on the rear to give us much outdoor space for each unit. And you can also see the ramp here that serves the courtyard. Next slide, please. Oh, I think you skipped one elevation there. Thank you. So this is our elevation along Columbia Road. Again, the flat elevation doesn't quite show you, but as we work our way down the tri-level townhouse style condos, we step the elevation back to keep that 20 foot. We have that to really provide as much green space along Columbia Road. The elevation doesn't show here, but we do. In our proposed landscape plan, have a radiron fence that wraps around the property that hides in to the adjacent property on Columbia Road at 1652. We also have a lot of outdoor vegetation that we're incorporating to the design. We actually exceed our usable open space. And again, you can see that we have raised the first floor level to meet with the seafroud requirements and with this brick podium. How many slides do you have left? Can we pause here and ask the board if they have questions? That's the rest. There's a section, yes. So what are we cause here? Any questions from the board? Yeah. I'm sure I have a couple of questions. So if someone lives in the townhouse units and parks in the garage, how do they access their unit? Yes, so they could take the elevator up through that common corridor or they could take one of the egress stairs up into the courtyard. If you go back to the first floor plan, you can. You're right, mute, kitty. So would the elevator take them to the other side though? The units on the left? Not the elevator. Yeah, the elevator takes them through that courtyard. Okay. Courtyard to each of their units. I see. Yeah, and there's also a stair that you see on the L-screen side that comes up from the parking garage, if they want to take the stairs up to the courtyard, then they have doors that you need one, two, and three are off the courtyard. Okay. And then a question on the trash. Would these residents be expected to wheel those barrels out onto the street or would there be private trash pickup? I probably have to leave that question to the applicant, but most likely it would be a service that would have a common downstairs that would come out to the street. Perfect. Okay. It's all my questions. Any other questions from the board? That was actually a really good question, kitty, because you know, just my comment would be that your courtyard is not really a courtyard, like, or realistically, it's just an open air alleyway. And so my concern is that, or I would recommend that you actually design it as such, so it's kind of safe for the residents. It's nice that all the units spill out to that common open air alley, so to ensure that there's no trash that is out on that alleyway, you might want to design it in terms of lights, you know, in that space, you have seating area along those walls and potentially a security gates. You don't have unwanted visitors in that alley, but you definitely would have to design a space for your dumpster in the complex. That's great. Thank you. Yeah. We do have a landscape plan that we developed that where the courtyard is built out with benches and vegetation, so it's a warm and inviting space. Okay. Great. Just to build on those comments, thank you, Hansi. I'm also kind of what I was trying to get at too is the visibility of the units one through three facing Columbia Road. You know, someone were accessing from the garage and wanted to visit those units. How would they get there? So I think also there's an opportunity with the courtyard to be a little more inviting and pleasant and easy to use. So those are just my comments. Thank you. Thank you both. Was that meant have a public testimony? Good morning. Madam Chair, members of the board, I'm Anna White with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. I would ask hosted two meetings for 244 Alstrait, first being on May 31, 2023 and the second in southern July, 26, 2023. Around 30 of others attended the first meeting and around a dozen the second one. The proponent listened to community feedback and reduced the number of units in the project and worked directly with two of others to alleviate their concerns. The neighborhood is very supportive of the parking ratio as it stands for seven units and 14 spots. In service, we're raised about the general safety of Alstrait and the additional danger of new cars entering and exiting the driveway. The City Point Neighborhood Association supports this project at this time. We'd like to defer judgment to the board. Thank you. Thank you, Ms. White. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board, I'm Anna Calderon from Council Press for Alistair and Flick Service. The councilor would like to go on recurring support based on a good community process that resulted in good faith compromises with members and abaters, including reduction of the size and density of the project, parking, including a parking ratio of two cars per unit. Unit increasing the setback on Columbia Road, as well as changes to Elissa and FACC to help the character of the surrounding South Boston community. The proponent has also agreed to work closely with abaters and in the city, on issues related to maintaining the three surrounding the property. Please note, Council President Flick Service and that of neighbors and civic groups like the City Point Neighborhood Association is always on this good faith compromises and the work that was done by the development team and the community over several months to get to this iteration of the project. Council President Flick knows that there are strong feelings in the community attached to this property and believes that this team has done all that has been requested by the neighbors and civic groups to make this project as successful as possible. The councilor respectfully requests that the board, that we pda, we cheer you in the city, mindful that this community support is always of these compromises over several meetings and months, issues like the parking ratio and to please respect the time and effort neighbors have put into this iteration of the project and the quality of life issues they experience every day in their community. Thank you. Madam Chair and members of the board of all solid and the city councilor at Lodge, Michael and the councilor are going back to the support. I commend the sentiments of council president Flick Service as well as acknowledging that there are Article 68 violations here. However, there was a vast community promises that resulted in what the council feels as a very good design of the building as well as the councilor's very much in support of the parking ratio that has come along with the design process as well as the community process and working with the abutters, councilor to commend the development team on working with the abutters and ask that the dog barking remain as is and is very much in support of the public. Madam Chair, or I can't say anything from councilor Murphy's office, the applicant completed a federal community process working with the abutters and the civic groups. So the issue to arise at the project plan for the location, the support from the neighbors is dependent on the two parking spots per unit because of this councilor Murphy would like to recommend to provide out of no BPDH design review or review of or BPDH design review not to affect the onsite parking work that design because of this councilor Murphy would have to go on up against the board. All right, thanks. Bob and then the wind. Up there, sir. Madam Chair, members of the board, Bob and Michael B. T.T. I'm not opposed to the park duration, even though it is excessive. But I would like to request two things. One of the space should be for handicapped accessibility and the other one having electric charging station in place since that seems to be gaining in popularity. But I'm not opposed to the park duration. I just think that those issues should be addressed. Thank you. Madam Chair, yes, good morning. Can you hear me? Yes. Okay, wonderful. My name is Mariano Cone, president of the City Point neighborhood association. And we took a vote. The vote came back to support the project. Very, very much what closed that vote in support is the design of that project. So I would like for the board to please take into consideration that we approve the project based on the design. It fits into the neighborhood. It's not a non-descript box type of housing, which is not the housing that we like to see in City Point. The other thing is the parking ratio for two spots per unit, absolutely unheard of currently. And that is why this particular project has received so much support is because of the design, the fitting in of the neighborhood and the parking. So this particular developer did his research and came out into the neighborhood with direct the butteries with the association. He really did his due diligence and came up with this design. So Kudos to the developer for that and his architect. Thank you. Thank you. Ed? Ed? We can't hear you just a minute. Hello? Oh, sorry. One second. Go ahead, Ed. You are a mute. Ed, if you're trying to speak. My name is Ed Johnson. I'm the owner of Prophecy, and I'm eight. So it's in the 80 Columbia Road, right? That's the Austrian property. My grandpa built a company in 1926 and I grew up there. I just wanted to say a couple things. The fence that on my driveway, I'm the owner of that fence. And I plan on repacing that fence where the black chain week rubber fence. So I'll be doing that after the construction is done with the two-point or Austrian property. And I just want to make sure that the height is consistent with my house at 1678 Columbia Road in the house at 238, I believe it is. I just want a confirmation of that. Thank you. Thank you. I'm knowing it's time to manage that. Mr. LeCast, do you want to just address that quick question before we proceed? Yes, we'll certainly mind Mr. Johnson's fence and work with him in any way necessary to accomplish that. And the height is 36 feet, which is not only consistent with the height of the adjacent structures, but less than the maximum height of 40 feet allowed in this district. Thank you. With that, may I have a motion? Yes. Again, I also want to applaud a developer and their design team for creating a robust public process and also their attorney. With that, I like to put forward a motion of approval with provisels that won the 14 park park and spaces at one be accessible and accessible parking space and that there would be also an electric charging station. The second is for there to be BPD design review, paying special attention to the design of the inner open air alleyway and that the projects comply with the green belt protection and overlay district requirements. May I have a second? Mr. Cambridge. Yes. Mr. Lano. Yes. Ms. Weewall. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. The line. Thank you so much. Thank you, Madam Chair. Madam Chair, since we passed the 11 a.m. hour, I will ask it this time if you're any request for withdrawal from the 11 o'clock time frame. Mr. Dre, what are you there? I'm not sure we are going forward with the case. Okay. So just as a reminder, we are currently a six member board and will become a five member board at about 220 p.m. Mr. Cambridge. So with that, we will return the next case in the 930s, which case be away, 140, 42028, with the address of 13. June of 4th Street. The applicant and whether it represents the president who has deployed. Good morning. Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is Michael Chavez and the architect and representative for the call monitor. Ms. Michelle Burry, who is also present. The proposed project is essentially a conversion of her attic. It's an on-occupied two-family column in Roxbury. She lives on the second floor and she's converting her attic into an extended living area, mainly as an old-fraith agent in place. And so the variances that are being requested, all of which are due to the fact that it's an existing condition. Oster Parking is not, you know, she's up on a place so much there. So there's an Oster Parking on her street. A lot frontage is insufficient and the yard is insufficient due to the size of her existing watt. And the 40-hanging ratio is the one thing that is really more impacted on this. We allow FAR for the site as 0.8. The existing house, as it is, is 0.83. And with the additional living space in the attic, it goes to 1.0. And so what she is proposing to put in the attic does not change anything from the exterior. There are no new dormers being built. No new extensions of the house being included. Essentially these spaces open over the years since it's been built. People of the University of Wales have been using it for various things. And she'd like to formally convert that into an extended living area where she would have a front entrance stair from the common hall way at the front of the house. That can be accessed from the front door. And then the rear stair takes directly down into the per unit on the second floor to connect directly into that space. And it'll just be a small one bedroom space of kitchenette in there, laundry space and about. Again, four people who may want to have extended stays there with her family friends, etc. You know, the roof will be brought up to energy code, insulated, you know, and all of all of that. And again, there's nothing that will be changed on the exterior portion of the house when it comes to roof to dormers, anything like that. The Highland Park, Newport, Coalition approved the proposal. I'm sure with three butters meeting and the Association meetings and I'll prove. And it's about it. Right. Thank you, sir. Any questions from the board? What is the plan in case there is fire? Is this sprinkler? It is not no because of the existing two and it's considered extended living area. This kind of falls within the same realm of it being a game room or additional bedrooms up there. So the effect that it's still remains a two family home keeps the house requirements sprinklers. Okay. So what's the emergency plan for the third floor? Addicts. So sure. So for the extended living area, we have one that leads directly to the common hallway like the other two units do. And then the technically these, the we're stared and exits down to her floor. That hurt them. The egress that's in her second floor unit counts as the second means of the address on the bottom of the backside of that. That at X space. So so the, you know, it's just basically like having enough stairs bedrooms or anything like that. We'd have to go downstairs and then get out the front back. So that would be the same case here where she has one direct exit to the front. Common stairwell and then the back of the point downstairs into the unit where she would then have back back stairwell. That's at the bottom of that stairless in the rear there is another back common stairwell that takes you down to the rear yard. So you're saying that the that you can exit through the second unit. Correct. So they don't have access for emergency. Correct. Okay. Great. Thanks. No further questions. Any other questions from board? You're not trying to go with the testimony? Yes, Madam Chair. Members of the board. We'll call our newman with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. This time the mayor's office is deferred to the judge on this board. Some back information in the community process are office hosts and the banners meeting in late June, June 29th to be exact. And as you do not recall any major concerns being voiced in the applicant was in contact the Highland Park and the Association, which is active for that area. I look forward to the board. Thank you. Any other raised hands? Yep. Tony. You're going to get testimony again. Sorry. It was raised. You can in the middle of class. I need to look and get testimony. If not, I have no additional raise answers. Okay. We have motion. I'll look forward to the motion. Second. Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Ms. Barbaraza. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Ms. Wewell. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good. Thank you. Thank you. Next we have case B.O.A. 144-6356. With the address of 22 to 24, Albury on the street. Is the applicant and the lawyer there represent the president to the point? Yes. For the Woodworths. Speaking. Hey. Can you walk us through your request? Yes. The owner is in the process of repurposing the back wing of her Victorian in Hyde Park in the process of which we discovered that the roof of that wing needs to be replaced. The second needs of the regress for the second floor apartment is across that roof. The roof has been replaced by the roof, and the roof is replaced with the roof. The roof is a roof. There have been a walkway. Our proposal is to replace the walkway in addition to the roof and create a deck for the use of the tenant. So as you can see, it's a large lot on Fairmount Hill and there will be a headhouse rebuilt for access down to exterior stairs as the second means of the address the deck will only partially be visible from adjacent properties and understand that the neighborhood is largely in support. Okay, any questions from the board? Yeah, none I want to take public testimony. I yes, Madam Chair, Madam Chair, Madam Chair of the Board, partner and the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This time the Mayor's Office is to defer to the judge for this board. Unfortunately due to personnel changes, I don't have a lot of information on this particular case without deferred to the board. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Madam Chair, I have no words. Thank you for having me have a motion. I'll make a motion to approve. No, the second. Seconds are okay. Mr. Stambridge. Yes. Mr. Berrassa. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. As we roll. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. There are also votes yes, motion carries. Good luck. Thank you very much. Next we have case B.O.A. One four one six zero one eight. With the address of nineteen fifty five nineteen seventy five beacon street. It's the applicant and or their. Thank you. Yeah, and or their representative. Please play. Yes. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board of trained Jeff Dregor with Dregor and Tusconna with business address of 11 beacon street here and behalf of HV the Massachusetts Inc. I don't know is happy Valley. And I also have Michael Raredin of the co CEO here as well. To answer any questions that the board may have. If we go to the next slide, please. Jessica, thank you. So this is a proposed co located. No preparation and medical cannabis establishment. At nineteen fifty five beacon street and right. This is a rendering of the exterior of the building. This particular site is located in a neighborhood shopping district and Cleveland circle. It has great transportation and parking access. It's directly across from the green line in this location houses. 13 parking spaces on site. I just want to point out back in April of 2021. Zoning board of Boston approved a similar location about a hundred feet away at nineteen thirty seven beacon street very happy Valley. As we went through that and we did receive support from the community and the BCB. As we went through, excuse me, that process, one of the overarching concerns we heard from the community was parking since that location, which was the old Mary Ann's bar. Did not have parking on site. As we went through that process, the opportunity came out to change locations about a hundred feet away and to house the dispensary of approved at nineteen fifty five beacon street. If we go to the next slide, please, Madam Ambassador. So we did start the process over again. Did go through the whole community process and did receive all the same support that we had before. Why this site is ideal is it's a free standing building. It's a former Dunkin Donuts site. As I mentioned, it has the thirteen parking spaces on site and it allows us to pull in often existing curb cut off of Cleveland circle and all of the loading and unloading of a product or cannabis can be done internally on our existing property as opposed to causing any traffic concerns that we heard from neighbors last time. So it is an ideal location. We feel we go to the next slide, please. This is the existing structure. So as you can see, this is the former Dunkin Donuts site and you can see the with a parking is allowed on the site plan. And so this building will remain would be all internal construction and also some exterior obviously with signage and some building design, but the building itself will remain the other building was going to have to come down and be raised next slide, please. And so this is just surrounding conditions. This is located within a commercial district and surrounded is labeled as a zone, this neighborhood shopping. And so you can see the commercial activity. We're also directly across from the green line making this great for other modes of transportation. If we could go to the next slide, please. That is the green line station that runs directly across from us. And you can see our building on the right hand side along Beacon Street. Next slide, please. And so I just labeled here some of the parking advantages of this location. So one, the onsite 13 parking spaces. There's also to our count 87 meat parking spots. And along with two hour parking and then the green line sea station and D. Live on right there along with the MBTA bus route bus number 51 and 86, which allows for all those different modes of transportation. Just to go over just a couple of items, the lot size is 7,069 square feet. The zoning variances that would be required is use regulation. So and it does mention that we were triggered because we would be within a half mile of another location. That location is our own approved building at 1937. Beacon Street, we have not moved forward with the application. But it was approved. So the BCB did approve us for this new proposal a few months back. And so if we were to be approved by the zoning board, we would not act upon that other license. So that would be extinguished by the BCB and that violation would be removed anyway. But now it does exist. It's also a conditional use because this isn't a commercial district. And we also have storage and use in the basement. If we go to the next slide, I can run through the plans as well. So this shows our site plan and that shows where the current building exists. You can see where the arrows is. That comes off of Cleveland Circle. And you can see the 13 housing spots where those were housed on site. Those are all existing. It also has an accessible spot as well. As we worked with the community, we agreed to put landscape all around the trim as well. And if we go to the next slide, we get into the floor plans and they're pretty standard. So in the basement, that would have our break room management office, security office, vault, freezer and mechanical area. And then on the first floor, you would have your vestibule check in a private consultation area showroom sales counter a bathroom vault at the receiving door. I just want all the so. I mean, how that this building has a full security plan. We will have video surveillance on the exterior and interior of the building. The inclusion detection, glass break detection, the whole of the alarms with the rest code 24, 7 monitoring by a third party and security professionals inside the building as well. The hours of operation proposed or 9 a.m. to 9 p.m. I just want to point out that and I know he's in the attendees section. I'm Adam. And master Michael and the land, the state, rap, I know will speak when the comments are I just wanted to bring that to your attention. And I can pause now to answer any questions or support. Thank you, Mr. Dario. Any questions from the board? Hey, hearing none. Let's get public testimony, including Mr. Moran. I think they're available. Good morning, Madam Chairman. Mr. Board of the Frank Windows here. Mayor's Office of the neighborhood services. Also right in the ASEAN here to testify to the community engagement process. The applicant went through, which consisted of an abouters meeting on May 6th at that meeting. Individuals express concerns about security and parking crime proximity to the local park, the reservoir, the Riley Memorial and a pond and rink. And young people in the neighborhood in general. They also attended the Brighton Austin Improvement Association monthly meeting of the Low Pacific Association where they received support. The B.A.I. did send a letter of support to the poor to have on file. We did also receive a number of letters of opposition from Cleveland Circle addresses and business addresses, which we received nine letters of opposition from Brighton, the larger Brighton neighborhood we received four. And from letters with no address as attached, we received seven. We're also aware that Boston College is an opposition as previously stated, elected support includes the Office of State Representative Moran. The Office of Counselor Brein is in opposition to this project at this time we'd like to defer to the judgment report. Thank you. Sorry, I just had a jump in for one second. Was it stated that this councilor Brein were the letter of non-opposition? Yes, thank you. Excuse me. I did mean to say non-opposition. And about now chair members of the board and about the homes in the Brighton Austin Improvement Association, we had originally supported the original proposal, which was funded from the way. And we voted to focus the proposal because it does supply parking and we think it's important to have a handicap space as they will be around the amount of it's important to have handicap space. We also feel that it's important that the delivery was off the street where it would not be able in the other location. One of the things that they did agreed with like the landscape design review, the state would be able to reach the landscaping even if they lose a parking spot at the way they pay that. Okay. Pedro, I'm sorry, Michael. Hello. Thank you. My name is Mike Brickett. I'm council for the Hamilton Company, which during affiliate owns a body and office building located at 2001 Beacon Street. I've submitted correspondence to the first board and for the reason stated in that letter, Hamilton Company opposes this project. Thank you. Thanks. Michael and my father. Hello. Can you hear me? Yes. Hi. Thank you for taking me my testimony for the record. My name is Michael Moran. I am the state representative from the 18th Suffolk District in Austin, Brighton. And I represented this community for 18 years in the legislature. I'm here to support the moving of the approval that was granted to Happy Valley in my grid from 1937 Beacon Street to 1955, which is essentially a hundred feet down the street. In the community, this particular community of Cleveland Circle has had a real upswing in investment in the Cleveland Circle of the Ruby Theater, which is now an hotel and various other businesses along this corridor have increased their capital investment in their properties. This is with the city redoing Cassie Plader and the state putting a lot of money into the Chester Hill Reservoir. This really is a community that is on the move. And I believe that this particular location is much better than the 100 feet away for the reasons of parking and 13 spaces, but also for those of you who are about Boston College graduates. This is going to be right where the Mary Ann's was located, not that I'm against those types of establishments, but I can tell you that that community was not in favor of that establishment being there. So getting rid of the dump and donuts and Mary Ann's and adding a heavily regulated and controlled marijuana facility, I think is an absolute benefit to this community. I would just finally point out that when this question was on the ballot, the Cleveland Circle community voted over 90% in support of legalizing marijuana. So this type of industry is not something that this community at large doesn't support. So for all of those reasons, I just wanted to reiterate my support for this project and hopefully the board, Madam Chairwoman and the members of the board will kindly grant this move and support this application. Thank you. Thank you. No additional raise hand. Okay, we may have a motion. Madam Chair, I may come with some talk with you. Okay, the second. Back in. Mr. Stembridge. Yeah. Ms. Bada-Baraza. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Ms. Willow. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you, Madam Chair. Mr. Stembridge, this time jump ahead to be discussion for 1130 this morning and ask if there are any requests for withdrawals or deferrals from that time. Yes, Mr. Stembridge, Attorney Richard plans for 169 Mavericks Street Bill and vote. First case. That would be case B.O.A. 147-5953. Yeah, there's 169 Mavericks. Yes. Second morning, Madam Chair, members of the board, Richard plans 245 Sunder Street in response to behalf of the petitioner. Madam Chair, we were before the board, I think just last month. This is just building code only. The board is already approved the zoning for this matter. We are dealing with an issue of concerning some egress for the building. We believe we've addressed it with the ISD. However, we're sort of in process of trying to get that issue resolved. We may need the building code relief, so we would like to keep this on the docket. However, if we're able to resolve it, then I will certainly inform the board by letter that this matter can be dismissed. We're asking this for a deferral perhaps to the end of October. Only November should be five. How many? Yeah, Madam Chair, October 31st would be available. Perfect. With that, ma'am, motion. Madam Chair, motion to the third of the bill. Up to where 30th place. You know the second. Again, Mr. Stumberidge. Yes. Mr. Berraza. Yes. Mr. Aingham. Yes, ma'am. Is we about? Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Chair also votes, yes, motion carries. Thank you very much. If there are no further requests for the bill from 1130, we will move on to the hearing schedule for 11 a.m. And just a quick reminder, sorry, just a quick reminder, where if six person board, that will become a five person board at 220. So please help us keep moving forward, Mr. Stumberidge. And with that, we'll go to case BOA 140, 6273 with the address of 6403. The applicant in the represent the president. Yes. Yes. Thank you, ma'am. Chair, members of the board, Attorney Jeff Drago, with Drago and Tuscano, with business address of 11 B.C. and Street. Here on behalf of the applicant, Tom Raul and Peter Ryan. And I also have that last man on the call as the architect for the project. If we could go to the slide deck, please. Thank you. So this is a proposal at six broke street. This existing building, but you're looking at is the rendering of the proposal. And that is to change the occupancy from three residential units with one retail space. To six residential units and obviously keeping the retail space. And this will also include renovating the entire building exterior, an interior, and then adding both a rear addition and a top floor recessed unit. And you can see that unit on the top of the building on the fourth level pulled back from the edge of L5 feet. If we go to the next slide, please. This particular project falls within the guidelines of Plannis Boston, BPDA, to support us as a recommendation for approval. We are located, it's great for commuters is directly across the street, falls on about the Raymond Street park, carters right across the street from airport station. And if you look at this slide, we'll be in filling above the convenience store and then adding the top unit above that. The if you go to the next slide, please. This is a view looking around the corner of Raymond and you can see the access right across the way to Raymond Street Park and airport stations. You go to the next slide, please, Mountain Chair. The mountain bassoon. And so now we get into the plans and elevation. So the proposed floor plan would be no use in the basement. This does fall under G-Cod. And I know Mr. Seminali received our information from water and sewer and no harm letter. The basement would be just storage and mechanical. We have first floor would house the retail market, which is 817 square feet, would also house unit one, which is a one bedroom. It's an existing unit. Second floor would house unit two, which also has an existing unit and then unit three of the new unit that's proposed to bedroom at 836 square feet. As we go up to the third level, we have an existing one bedroom and that unit five, which is the new unit of two bedroom at 836 square feet. And then the floor, floor is the new unit on the top, which is a three bedroom at 998 square feet. The addition in the back would provide for new rare decks. And that would include on the second and third story addition. If we look in this surrounding area, there are a number of, there's a number of precedent for four story, one thirty, four Chelsea Street, one sixty six, two forty five, all within our immediate walking distance. And then this board approved the five story building at 282 Raymond Street. There is four to five, which is still diagonal from from our properties. And let's go over the zoning variances that are needed this use. This is a three F district and we are providing six units with retail. So we would need a use variance. Our lot size would be under FAA, we are proposing 2.9. We're currently at 1.53. For height, we are proposing 43 feet, but we are recessed, as I mentioned, in the front of the building. And at four stories and three stories would be allowed under the code. We're not changing anything in terms of front yard side yard or rear yard. They are pre-existing since we're not changing the contours of the front or sides of the building. We are not able to provide parking because there's no existing parking. And we are keeping the building, however, we are a one minute walk to the airport station right across the way, which is great for commuters as well. And I did mention this triggered cheat code and iPod as well. I can pause to answer questions of the board now. Yes, Mr. Greg, a question on the retail space. So I know you said you're retaining it. It's retaining the space. It sounds like from feedback that you're not retaining the occupant. Can you speak to that? So that's just not true Madam Chair. Okay. We are keeping the occupant. We've had no intention to remove them. The delicious market has been a great tenant in a long standing presence in the community. The intention of the owners was to have a longer term lease at below market level. So the lease that was presented in the these paying now is well below a half below market, which we had agreed would continue for three years with an additional two years option beyond that. So I think a lot of comments around that are rumors, I should say, but that's just simply not true. And we want to continue to work with that tenant. Obviously during construction, we did mention there would be a period of time. We're trying to keep that to a minimum only where it would affect above his location for framing that we would need to just have everyone out of that location for, you know, hopefully only a month or so. And we didn't express that, but the intention is to keep that tenant long term. Okay. Other questions from the board? Can we have public testimony? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board of the corner, and I'm in with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This time, the Mayor's Office looks deferred to the judgment of this board. Our office conducted in a butters meeting on October 22, 2022. There were 22 of voters who were present on the call. The applicant then went on to meet with the Maverick Central Neighborhood Association December of 2022 and January of 2023. Madam Chair, as you touched upon, there's been a lot of concerns raised by the community for the potential of gentrification, the potential loss of its retail space. The delicious market, I guess, is well-loved in the community. Neighbors and members of the mutual aid EC have written and called out an opposition out of fears that the app that this business could be displaced. We understand that the applicant has been working with that business owner and it's verbally committed to retain them after the construction has been complete. I think some members of the public expressed concerns that there's no written agreement there with that will defer to the board at this time. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Christian Seminoli, passing Raleigh Trust, and we have both G. Godless from the applicant. Thank you. I'll start with Hector and we've got a mutual aid. Hector, can you briefly explain to me a bit, can you tell us briefly if you are in support of opposition? Stay tuned in, my address. Hello. Hi. I'm here to see you. I'm here to work. I'm here to work. I'm here to work. Is there anyone that's going to help him translate? I'm here to work. I think we should have a cross-the-translation, but I can give someone a call, shortly. And if you can't find a translator, there's two board members that speak Spanish that can translate. As long as you guys are willing and just pausing that you're appropriate time, thank you. Please proceed, Mr. Martinez. Hello. When the store is still there, I have my family. I'm going to do everything I can to the store and I'm going to start a contract for the national team. We can do it with them, a contract. I've been working for five years, five years, and they've said no. I've been working for three years, two years, but that's not true. Because we have to continue through the fight. I've been working for three years. I've been working for three years, three years, and three years, and I've been working for three years. I think I'm going to have to go there to get the opportunity. I can buy more materials, I can keep the simple, I can keep the quality, I can keep the community, I can keep it. And so I can't continue working. I've been working for the rent. I've been saying that I can't go to the rent. So I'm going to have to find a contract. The opposition votes are due in four dimensions, I can't see anything. Three of three people voted and the pepper plants as a whole. It's what I was likely taking to them and my relatives was in the government's day to be helping me. Okay. Thanks. I'm sure he basically said that he would like to have a preferable five-year contract versus a three year. and then a three-year potential renewal that it would be favorable for him for five years because three years is just too short and very difficult for him and his family. So I guess the question would be, is there a potential to extend from three years to five years? I think, yes, thank you, Ms. Buraza. So we talked about, and I've only been, of course, I have to deal with this attorney directly. We did send a proposal of in writing of three years plus an option for two additional years. So I think we would be perfectly comfortable at five years. I think what we were hearing was that it was more than fine. It was just, and it would be hard for financing, but I think we would be amenable if you don't actually have the owner who has reached out to him directly Tom Walch, Jessica, sorry, I'm asking again, but if you could elevate Tom to speak, just because he's been actively involved with this as well. Just a question. If it's five years, would you be open for two years negotiation? Five years? Five years, okay. It's just think if Tom could also, if he is available. And then I'll just let, I think we have the pre-provision of the reality that I'm talking about. Yes, I understand. But I think I have to cut it off, but I don't want to say that we're talking about it. Ah, I don't want to say that. Three or five renewables. Okay, three or five renewables, five or five renewables. Yes, five renewables. Okay, I think that's for you to have a lawyer when they will see after you number one, okay, Tom will say that. Okay, so basically his preference is five-year contract with a potential three or five-year negotiation. And I just basically said we're not in the business to be negotiating, but that I would communicate this preference. I think we're done with that. Yes, and Ms. Ross, we have really had a communication with him. We want to keep the topic. Okay. They've lower his rent immediately, so we'll have to pay them a little more. Thank you. Thank you. Can we keep going with the public testimony? Yeah, for the money. For the money. For the money. And the mutual aid. I'm going to put it in the down here. Okay, mutual aid. I'll call you. Hello? Yes. Go ahead. This is the aid of the mutual aid. I am in support of actors. Cross-restore will left alone and for a little time. But besides before that, I would like to comment on the project. I don't think this is on the dollar per realize with the heavens, the pain and suffering they have crossed of community. Now we're talking about as a size of the party that crossed them. We are going to suffer more parking, surely. This community, these up to 30 years, and I'm speaking on behalf of all the elderly, and these are people that live in this community, that have a hard time. I know the neighbors who have to take a new birth, because they want to keep their heart to mature that they have a space when they come back. It is impossible to find parking. Never mind the airport, the Y, the library, the schools, and now all these targets, we are never going to have in this space. It is a sad situation, and I just want to make that clear. On behalf of the actor who is not of money, making business, he's a family man who barely needs money to support his kids, send his kid to college. He also provides a lot of services to the community, especially the handicapped who cannot travel to cross, or other places that are very hard to get to. We depend on his story by things that we daily need, we need daily, he has even drawn a spot, taking people's grocery home because some of us cannot pay a bit. So I really support him staying there for at least nine to ten years, where we can find or help and relocate a place that is near this community. He has other communities. We have seen his kids grow up, thank you, Madam Chair, family, moments and memories. And I really would like for Mr. Hector to allow to stay. Thank you. Thank you, Madam. Appreciate that. Can we? Are there other reasons? Yes. Yes. Can you hear me? Yes, sir. Yes. This is Tony Blaise. I am the attorney assistant, Mr. Martinez, in the negotiations. My address is 1.83 State Street, Boston, Mal. Can you pause? I would like to hear from someone other than those associated with Mr. Martinez to make sure that we are getting a better allowed picture. Absolutely. We will come back to you at the end. Leonard, are you looking to get testimony? Yes, I am. Can you hear me? Yes, sir. Okay. Well, to the board, the chair's point. I am here with Hector inside. We are all here in our new mutual DC office. I am also in East Boston, and I am speaking in a position to the project as a means of supporting Hector who doesn't feel like the project is offering. I am in the position to the fact that there are various federally that are concerning for us some of which is I that just mentioned. My address is 8.0.1. I don't know if I said that did you want to say your exposure? No, I don't. I don't think that's a chance to speak. Yes. So, yeah, I think again, it should be pretty clear. We are here in support of Hector and the ability for the delicious markets remain there. We are working on what, Jeff and the development team was saying about a contract and that it offered to be made, but it's simply as insufficient for Hector. And I think maybe one thing that just caught our eye, I was a little concerned and perhaps indicative of the good faith or not back thereof of the development team was that in the first picture they showed, they had delicious market there and in the second it said East Boston market, which was a little just, you know, an observation at least. I know the board also wants to hear about the zoning concerns. So, on my end, Tyler already touched on the parking and I'm equally concerned about the parking. It's madness there and it's insufficient what the project is proposing. And, you know, that's the zoning code for response in states. I don't have it word to word, but the new projects to fit the character of the neighborhood and also add to the well-being of the neighborhood. Anything that would lose a bodega, you like Hector's, that provides products that are important for the environment and community that are from their home countries. It's significantly added to their environment. Okay. Thank you. There's some feedback in any case. Okay. I know. Thank you. So, I think we understand parking issues and Mr. Martinez' establishment. So, if there's no other new, I'm sorry. Yeah. Do you want to respond to that, Mr. Grigor before we? Sure. I'm so sorry to interrupt, Chair. Could I ask one question about the language interpretation? Because both Hector and I had requested a Spanish interpreter. And I know Ms. Barraza, the best she could to interpret for her. But I think we were both hoping for professional interpretations that everything could get translated. So, I don't know what the status is for the language, Justice Peas. I, Ms. Thomas would know whether that was requested or not. Okay. And where that stands. Hello. Okay. Guys, Madam Chair, Tom Walch here. I'm the owner of the building. If I could just tell a few words. It would be a- If you are responding to those comments briefly, yes, please. Yes, absolutely. Firstly, thanks for giving me the best to the chat here. Of how we've had a pretty great relationship with Hector over the last kind of two years, since we've been involved with the project. What I would say is Hector, absolute great business, fine, great entrepreneur, is done everything in favor of us. And we've tried as much as possible to do everything in favor for him, especially over the last couple of weeks. We want Hector in our retail units, 100%. We want him to feel comfortable. We understand the family, e-tops. We understand the culture that he brings to the area. It's only an advantage to have him in place. There is no fear of having Hector and business in place. We're working with attorney. We need to attorney to put that down in Roy Hake. So there's no fear of that. We want Hector to talk about Hector. Okay. In terms of the power team, I would say that as a building owner and as a resident of Hector, I'm kind of more in favor of less power, less parking. And I think the location of this business as Jeff alluded to. Showcase is that it is really a transit-orientated area. We're literally 50 and seconds away from what is the number one transportation line into Boston. We could be a little bit faster to find out. I think that's the other things. Thank you. I think so. Pretty much just to wrap this up. I just like to reiterate that we don't have an Hector in the building. We want him to remain. I think we're all in agreement with that. I just wanted to assure everybody that that is very much part of our future plans. Thank you. Are there any other questions from the board? Man, chair, this is hot here. I believe Tony blazes the attorney representing Hector Martinez. Yes. If that's the case, I would suggest that to allow him to present testimony on behalf of Mr. Martinez. Okay. All right. Let's hear from Mr. Blaze and then we can proceed. Tony? I just asked. Can you hear me? How can we hear? Yes. Yes. So good morning again. Madam chairman of the board. In any event, I have been talking to Tony Drago, but I have to say that I have been requesting a lease on behalf of Mr. Martinez over the last several months since the last meeting. I was sent a lease just about a week or two ago, which actually contained the provision for one year lease. This is inconsistent with the testimony that Mr. Hector is wanted on the property. If Mr. Hector, there was some good faith in wanting Mr. Hector and the Martinez on the property. I believe that the lease would be at least that with three years. A one year lease was sent over. After some negotiations, it went up to a three year lease. But even a three year lease considering the nature of Mr. Martinez' business does not make any kind of economic financial sense. As you heard from the several people who live in the community, he provides an indispensable service to the marginalized peoples in that community. Actually, the elderly, the sick, the closest supermarket is several thousand meters away or miles away. This has been a fixture or the store has been a fixture in the community for a significant period of time. There is a real concern that when this project is approved, Mr. Hector, Mr. Martinez, sorry, I call him Hector because of the family already in the first name, Mr. Martinez will in fact be kicked out of the property at the end of any lease period. If in fact the developer wants to maintain him on the property, why not give him a five year lease with two second five year options? This is a normal standard commercial lease. I've worked on several of those leases over the past, you know, dozens of years. I am in touch with Attorney Driggle. I believe that will come to some kind of consensus, but I am afraid that if the project is approved at this stage, I think what we're going to have is a community where a significant benefit has just been pulled from dawn under. So I believe that will reach some kind of consensus, myself and Attorney Driggle, we've been working at it. But let us have a lease that is agreeable by both parties. And if there is this level of mutual trust, then I believe that both parties can move along with the security that, you know, their interests, their mutual and respective interests have been met. And Mr. Martinez is primary interest, he's having a long term lease, a community one severe, Mr. Walsh one severe. So that should not be too difficult. Thank you, Mr. Blaze. I think we understand your point. Is there a response, Mr. Driggle, before we proceed? Yes, thank you, Madam Sharon, it is true. I'm working with Attorney Blaze, however, we did just send him again. I have a documentation of that in an email form that was a three-year lease with an option. I don't want to get too into the legal details, but an additional two years, which have brought it up to five. And we're open to working with Mr. Martinez. But again, this is sort of a legal issue. We did send this lease out more than a month ago. And my client gave a copy of the lease because I was afraid that this would happen at the 11 hour to Mr. Martinez directly as well to pass along to his attorney. Just so we could have an open communication, we would be more than happy to continue to work with him to get something memorialized, to have some kind of a proviso that we continue to work with him. But I am on the record. I have documentation that shows we have mentioned a five-year lease is no problem for us. And just a point out, we are at about half market rate rent. I can't lower the rent because he wants to keep Mr. Martinez. And right now, prior to my client room, the building, Mr. Martinez has been on the retennancy at will. So someone else was to purchase the building. He could be in jeopardy, aside from this whole development. Having this development go forward with a locked in lease would only protect him. That's for five years. Thank you. Okay. I don't want to back and forth between you guys. Just had a small command. Just had a small command. Very, very briefly. We respect Mr. Martinez being on the property without the lease. Actually, the owner of the property had promised to sell the property over to him, but he passed. And of course, whether in here, the property did otherwise. And again, I have to mention that the lease that I was sent two weeks ago, started with a one-year lease. So how is this consistent with one thing, Mr. Martinez on the property for a significant period of time? I mean, started with one year until we raise objections and issues. I actually proposed three early and two consecutive three-year lease. To which business? Okay. I'm going to stop you both here because we're not here to mediate your legal negotiations. We appreciate the context. But are there any other questions from the board if this is sufficient information? Can someone put forth a motion and feel free to provide the way up if it's helpful? Madam Chair, my position is to do development in the city of Boston without this placement. I'm going to put for a motion, which is a motion of deferral to allow for parties to come before us with conviction that they have negotiated some good terms and good faith. But currently, I'm not hearing that. I'm hearing different opinions. And with that, in this deferral, it will also give the opportunity for the city of Boston zoning board to provide a interpreter at that hearing. So that's my motion and motion of deferral. It's very second. I would like to make this motion. So yes, thank you. It's very much. Sorry, yes. The early day, it's at the moment. I'm on the. A month should be both parties really want to come to some terms. A month should be sufficient. We could do October 17th. That's the next full board hearing. So a few more days on a month, but October 17th will be the next closest one. Okay. Okay. Motion at a second, Mr. Stambridge. Yes. Mr. Mr. Better-Browson. Yes. Mr. Langman. Yes. Ms. Lee-Woe. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. We'll hope that you. Yep. See you next month. Madam Chair, I would like to make a comment. Thank you for the day proponents that told me. I would like to thank you for the day. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Exactly. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, everybody. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Nice to meet you. So All members of the community of Boston have the right to participate. Do not import the language that speaks. If you want to translate or interpret any language, there are three options to do it. In the website of ISD or the Sony board, there is a phone to call. There is a form or a line that can fill or also email for the Nuretem Bajadora of the Sony board that can contact at least 48 hours before the audience. To use this service and your voice is heard. Thank you, Mr. Bonziar and Mr. Berberazo. Appreciate it. Thank you. OK, let's proceed. This is BIAWAY 148-2748, the address of 247 Shamanad. It's the applicant and all your representatives. Who's welcome? I hear you're on mute. You can unmute yourself. If you just made them a panelist, if you just want to. You heard me, but we can't hear you if you're speaking. There is 91 to present on 247 Shamanad. Issues with an audio, there's another handouts raised on a mat. You need to give them to both of the phones. Mr. VanderWale, are you something on this? Yes. Can you hear me? Yes, we can now hear you. Oh, sorry about that. Hello, I'm Pete Vanderwile and I am the general contractor doing the permitting on behalf of the homeowner. What we have here is the, this is on Shamanad, the stop end. If you could scroll up just a little bit so we can see this. Yep, right there. That's perfect. OK. Here's the subject property on Shamanad. The homeowner has a top floor where there's currently a small fire balcony deck off of the back that bases the rear of the project. And they are proposing to dormer out that area so the space inside is more inhabitable for one of their family members who was living in there. It's a slope roof right now that basically renders half of the floor sort of a slope of the roof and they would like to dormer out to provide adequate space where there's currently a bedroom area there that's being used by a family member. So the area of the proposed dormer is right here. It's within the footprint of the current property would not extend out beyond the rear wall but we're required to get relief so that's why we're here. Great. Any questions from the board? Hearing that, can I put the testimony? Oh, I would like to add quickly. We did. I can't see if Kim cruises the only on the call but she is. She is. She is. Will speak to community process. Yeah, we did get a few letters that I've submitted to Kim and we did not have any opposition. Thank you. With that is our neighbor liaison on. I saw you a minute ago. Yes, hi, I'm sorry for the video for some reason I can't get it's work. But good morning Madam Chairman, I'm the board of the board Kim. I'm from the mayor's office of neighborhood services. Office of like two deferred to the board on this matter. This held in a butters meeting in July where all concerns were addressed by the applicant. They also went before eight streets neighborhood association where they also received an opposition and offices also received boy letters of non opposition for butters. Thank you. Thank you. Madam, I'm sorry. Members of the board. I'm not calling on some kinds of press and fling sources. The councilor would like to go on recording support. Thank you. Thank you. Madam, Madam. I sent the question. You're looking to get testimony. No. Okay. Okay. Madam, I have a motion. Madam, Charlotte put for a motion. Madam, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Madam, I'm sorry. Madam, I'm sorry. Madam, I'm sorry. Madam, I'm sorry. Madam, Charlotte put for a motion of approval with the provisor that the plans be reviewed by the Department of Parks and Recreation and by the Boston Landmarks Commission. We have a second. I can't. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Miss Better-Brasa. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Miss Weewell. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good. Thank you. Next, we have case. V.O.A. One five one. Three zero three six. The address of 25 whole works street. Is the applicant and or their representative. Who's fine. Good afternoon. Madam Chair, and it was a warm. My name is Blake. Mr. Sparrow. I'm an object. I'm an object. I'm an object. I'm an object. I'm an object. I'm an object. I'm an object. I'm an object. I'm an object. I'm an object. I'm an object. I'm an object. I'm an object. I'm an object. I' would wish my name is Blake. I'm an object. I'm an object. Should take 64 objects when you have the object. If the project spread. For one family. Because i want to... When opposed. When opposed. And if we have beforeing today, is students to perspective or talk about existing foundation She has the progressive bird and word to use. It's a single family, a house hmhmmen family. Also the world grassroots. These are our old presentation. The new guys will be submitted to be reviewed after the last hearing mix-up. It's a three-story building now. Would you like us to proceed, Mayor? I'll be here with you, you'd recommend. When did you submit the latest drawings? We do have a mislevel of the last hearing. You know, except this was an ERT, not an ALT. And we submitted everything everything we've got. We want with everybody at the ISD to improve the government. Sean. You said the plans were changed. When did you submit the plans? Because right now I think that's all we have. We have to be resuminated after the hearing because we notice that. Right. When did you send us those plans? I can take a look for it. Might I suggest we move forward to give a chance to look for the current, the correct ones. And then we can hopefully turn back to it. I just want to let you know that the plans that I have are the ones that I'm seeing on the screen. So we just have to be reviewed on site. We could defer to September 26, which is the next hearing and I'm sure to be the plans. Unfortunately, if there's anything submitted prior to today or of today, we want to be able to share it with the board. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I'll ask Stephanie if she received those. But right now I think these are the only plans that they have presented. Can's double checking now. Why don't we take a 15 minute break right now for them to deal with this and we'll reconvene. That's not good. All right. Taking a break. See you back in 15. Thank you.