 you you you you you you you hey have a right announced the folks in remind them that we are a six-member board today. And before we go into the rediscussion, the schedule is 1130. We will ask if there are any requests for withdrawals from the throws or the throwals. I guess you're going to go ahead, sorry. Mr. Stembridge, my insfits requesting 275 gold street, please. In 75 gold, which is case the OA 163, 03, or not, again with the address of 275 gold street. Would you go ahead and explain for me? Great. Thank you, Mr. Stembridge. Madam Chair, members of the board, Attorney Ryan Spitz with Adams and Marancie Business Address of 168 H Street, First floor, South Boston. We're looking to seek an administrative deferral to be heard in front of the full seven member board. We're actually going to request a further day, probably about three months approximately, as we are aware of the planning department's recommendation to resolve the accessibility issue. So again, where restructuring those in the meantime and having conversations with the architectural access board about obtaining a variance prior to moving forward or another alternative method in order to get rid of the building co-release that has been cited as well. Thank you. Carolyn? Yeah, so it does clarify it will just be inter-fuel. And the latest we can do for the end of the year would be December 10th. Sure, when we'll take December 10th, please. Okay, for that may be motion. I make a motion to the front to December the 10th. Yeah, the second. Back in. Mr. Stembridge. Yeah. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes, ma'am. Yes, we will. Yes. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Chair votes. Yes, the motion carries. See you. Great. Thank you. And I believe there was one over there party that spoke up. Yes, Mr. Secretary Madam Chair, Attorney Nixon's little academic both, he and the lawyer, handly 46 high-street Mr. Secretary. Yeah. So that would be for case, be it away, one, five, nine, nine, three, two, six, with the address of 46 high-street, would you also go ahead and play a pro-play? Yes, sir. So in talking with staff, not a chair and looking to also address the playing board recommendation, we made some budget changes. However, our understanding is we need to re-advertise in order to come back to the board because of some of those changes to the language. We also want to make sure we have time to bring those changes back to the child's town, the neighborhood and the abutters as well. So I think in speaking with staff, December 3rd was an option for re-advertising and that would give us a funny time to be able to circle back with a lot of people. So thank you. Okay, Caroline, did that work? Yes sir. Okay, with that may have a motion. I make a motion to refer to December 3rd. Is there a second? That's better. Mr. Stembridge? Yeah. Mr. Blitz, yeah. Yes. Mr. Rolano? Yes. Ms. Ruelo? Yes. Mr. Aiken? Yes. Chair votes. Yes, motion carries. See them. Thank you. Yes, I have a different request as well. Good morning Madam Chair and members of the board. Mary Kate Campbell with the law firm Dr. Gwintis Gano. We're here asking for deferrals on three applications. 36 laid in, 36 A laid in and 20 hinkley due to the not being a full board. Okay. I will. So those requested for case BOA 1616380, the address of 368 in the street. Also for case BOA 1616380, 84 with the address of 368 laid in the street. And for case BOA 16031, 6 year old with the address of 20 hinkley street. Would you go ahead and put it in the blind term? Um, where she just she did administrative deferral. Um, what dates are you, how far out are you going to be? Um, the earliest available. It's fine. Okay. Um, so we'll be just to clarify it's just a deferral. Um, the earliest we have is November 19th. Okay. That works. Thank you. Okay. We have a motion. Make a motion to defer all three of those cases in November 19th. Is there a second? That's right. That's right. Mr. Stembridge. Yeah. Mr. Volencia. Yes. Mr. Lyman. Yeah. Ms. Wewell. Yes. Mr. Eakin. Yes. Chair Volchius, the motion carries. Yes. Thank you. I have a different. Oh, as well, please. It's 27. Dudley. Though that would be for case of the OA. One five five two two nine eight. With the address of 27 Dudley Street. Um, would you go ahead and put it? Yes. Thank you. Cameron Marrow on behalf of the applicant. Now, this was a matter on last month and planning staff that requested. We submit some plans with some clarifications of questions they had. Those plans and the letter of clarification were submitted on 920. But unfortunately, there was a miscommunication and they did not make it to the appropriate staff person for review. Therefore, they asked for a quick date. You review them and report back to the board, which were okay with? No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. Yes. Is we well? Yes. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Sure, well, it's yes. The motion carries. Thank you. Any further requests, rules with draw over the first and the start. Then with that, we will go to case B.O.A. 158. 8133. The address of 190 R. Power Street. If the applicant can't do it, they represent a present. Would they please explain to the board? Yes. Good morning, Madam Chair. Mr. Secretary and members of the board. Attorney Maddickell with Fletcher Tilton on behalf of the applicant. Also with me is Eric Zagerson from Context, the project architect. Just a brief background, this case was previously deferred. So it could be re-avertised to include the G-con violation, which it now has been. The proposal itself, we're seeking to renovate the existing single-family dwelling, including erecting a side-edition, dormers, and a sprinkler system. The zoning sub-divisive is a 3F-2000, and this lot, as you can see here on the screen currently, it contains a 3F structure, fronting on Power Street, as well as the existing single-family structure towards the rear of the lot. The overall lot size is 3300 square feet. As part of the renovation, we're proposing dormers on the third floor to provide some additional living space, additional windows to allow more light and air, and a small addition on the left side, as you can see, where on the top left there, where you can scroll down to the next one there. You can scroll back down, thank you. Yeah, so you can see when the building bows out a little bit, both in the front and the rear right in the middle of the screen there. That addition's proposed to be between two and four feet, and provide a better entry way for you, and some additional living space in the two bedrooms above. That addition's proposed to be only on the first and second floor. I would note you can see very faintly there, the outline of the existing deck, and deck above. So, even though we're proposing a slight addition on the left side of the structure, we're actually increasing the side yard setback to about seven and a half feet by taking away that previous deck entryway and deck above. In terms of the floor plans, what you're looking at right now, we are proposing no living space in the basement. This is going to see throughout district, so it's just the unfinished storage and utilities. The first floor would contain the kitchen, living and dining room, as well as a half bath. The second floor, which you can see there on the bottom left, is proposed to be two bedrooms, two bathrooms with laundry facilities. And on the third floor, which you can see on the kind of middle right there, bottom bottom of the page is the primary bedroom, as well as bathroom. You can see, even with the dormers, the footprint of that third floor is not as big or as wide as the floors below it, because the dormers don't extend quite as far, and the addition does not carry to the third floor, so that's just going to be the primary bedroom suite on the third level. As mentioned, this project will include the installation of a sprinkler system, which should improve the safety of the structure, as well as upgrades to the landscaping. We went by it already, but on one of the prior slides, the site currently contains a lot of concrete in the form of walkways and just concrete areas. We're proposing to remove that and replace it with grass and permeable pavers, which you can see there in the middle of your screen, providing the access way from Paris Street to the structure. So we're proposing an overall reduction in impervious area on the site. The site and violations are all pre-existing, and for the most part, we wouldn't apply to the current zoning today, with the exception of the G-Cod violation. And for that, we did submit our approved plan from Water and Sewer and our No Harm Letter through the board. As part of this process, we met in the Maverick Central Neighborhood Association, as well as the Abutters, and the Association did vote to support the project. Now, with that, I'll pause and take any questions the board may have. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? Madam Chair, I have a question. I had a hard time following the changes in the plans from the planning memo with the plans that were submitted. And what I think happened is that increase in permeability was shown, but only on the architectural site plan and not on the survey. Can you confirm that and can you take us through where the changes from concrete to permeability are? And then guess my next question is to planning how do we address discrepancies between surveys and architectural plans and which plans govern? Sure. So for the first part, if you could, Madam Ambassador, go back up to a delete slide too. Yeah, and the colorings a little tough to see here, but maybe you can zoom out. The bottom shows the existing. And you can see that concrete pathway from power street all the way to the rear of the property extends. You can see how it's kind of outlined in the shaded percolish color. And then on the top of that, the bottom half of the screen, but the top little portion is also a little concrete, almost patio area right on the property line. So those are proposed to be removed and infilled with grass. And then you can see the new walkway is less overall space and is also proposed to be permeable papers. So that's that's the change we're proposing. Okay, so is the I don't think that's on the survey. It's still largely showing is concrete. So how I guess is the expectation that that survey is changed? I mean, I just always rely on the survey for that information versus the architectural site plan. But Mr. Hampton is around to jump in how that's handled. Mr. Hampton, I'm with us. Waiting for the mice to get everything going. Thank you Madam Chair and support Jeff Hampton's. So, you've also planning the private. Yes, Mr. We will. We've actually seen these plans. We do share your concern. However, we were going through the architectural drawings and as you saw in our our original recommendation that was back in September, our recommendation was to deny it. I thought, Fred, it is so that they can increase the permeable area. Our recommendation this time, we had already seen these plans. At the time, I don't know if I as the head had seen or stamped the plans for this site. We are satisfied with the increase in permeability. And that's why our boat has changed to a crewable with design review. We would have recommended deferral of I as the head not seen this. So, I know it's a little confusing on our especially with that vote. But we're satisfied with the increase of the permeability and we recommend. And it's okay that that's not shown on the survey. I mean, we can ask them to submit a new survey. Okay. You know, well, the board could ask them to submit a new survey showing these changes. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? With that, may I have public testimony? Good morning, Madam Chair. And members of the board, my name is Epidrones representing the mayor's office and the neighborhood services. Regarding 190R Paris Street office will defer to the board judgment on this matter. A community process was conducted, including on the butters meeting held on 5-2-2024, which was lightly attended by two constituents. The feedbacks from this meeting was primarily from the Mendeley family, which are direct to the butters to the property. Some concerns cited were construction noises, disturbing the elderly matriarch of the family and setbacks and setbacks. They also did submit a letter of opposition to the proposal while the other constituent expressed support for the proposal and was happy to see a building that was run down ice or being unified. The applicant explained that the setbacks were existing violations and that there was nothing they could do about that and that due to tight space of the project, many machine construction vehicles would not be able to fit and therefore the construction would actually be quieter than usual but take a little bit longer. Additionally, the proposal was reviewed by Maverick Central Civic Association, which can be deemed on 6-1924. The Association expressed support regarding the project and voted yes to the proposal and they did also provide a letter of support. At this time, the mayor's office and neighborhood services differed to the board's judgment. Thank you for your coming consideration. Thank you. Can I have a question? Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Christian, Summit, Ellie, Bas and Grama across and both G-Code and others from the applicant. Thank you. Thank you. No additional arrangements. Was that my motion? Motion through through with planning department design review. Is there a second? I'll second and can I add the privilege of that the survey be updated to reflect the architectural site plan in terms of areas with permeable surfaces? Be sure to answer it. Yes. Okay. With that, Mr. Stembridge. If I can remember, you just have to say yes. Sorry, Madam Chair. Thank you. Thank you. Yes. Yes. Can we actually, I'm sorry, can we repeat both the other provinces one more time? Would you like to try it, Mr. Stembridge? No, give it a shot. Can do the abbreviated version. Planning the department review and updated survey. How's that? Make motion through with planning department review. And I apologize to have second planning and updated survey. Update with survey. Okay. Can we get a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Lang. Yes. As we well. Yes. Mr. Eakin. Yes. Mr. Eakin. Yes, the motion carries. Thank you very much. Next, we have cases B-O-A-154-2650 with the adios of 226 Magnolon Street. Is the applicant and or the representative present? Could they please explain the case of the board? I am, Mr. Secretary. Hello, Madam Chair, members of the board. Good morning, too. This is Mike Ross on behalf of the applicant attorney at One International Place, Prince Lable on here with the architect, Beth McDougall. This project has gone through numerous versions and probably six or seven revisions to date. The initial project was an article 80 project with 28 units back in 2021. It was reduced to a 14 unit building that was denied by this board on February 28, 2023. We spent the last year and three quarters replacing the architect and working through the community process where we presented an eight unit plan in November of last year to the community, followed by a six unit plan where we were prepared to share with the board at the last appearance on this matter in August or on this board. However, we reviewed the comments by Boston planning at the time which spent a lot of time talking about the rear yard and the open space in the rear. And so now we're presenting a five unit plan down from six units to accommodate those concerns that were raised by Boston planning. The other item, since then, we raised by Boston planning. They generally supported the other relief stating that the immediate areas characterized with pairs of attached three unit buildings that present as six unit multi-family dwellings. Sorry, Madam Besser. That was a long preamble to go right back to where you were on the site plan on page one, which if you look at this carefully, so what you see here that shows an existing 11-bay brick garage building in the gray diagonal hash marks on the screen there. And it runs the entire length of the building with just a two-and-a-three-foot, 2.9-foot rear yard existing. The darker black hash marks on top of that show the envelope of what we're proposing, which is the five unit building. That would create a 16-and-a-order rear yard setback from the rear of the property. And that was the adjustment, that was the main adjustment that we made since our August theme when we came out here. Wanting to have that larger rear yard setback in the open space in the rear. If you look at the width of this parcel from side to side, on the left-hand side of the property, as you face the property, so on the right-hand side of your screen, you can see that there's a 16-foot setback from the property. 16 feet, where only 10 feet is required. And this was deliberately done in order to allow a generous setback to our neighbor, who was at 220 Marshall Street. And then there's an easement of that shared driveway, where it's the property of the petitioner, but the easement is on the property to allow for the access to the 220 Marshall Street along that shared driveway. And then I just want to point out that the lot sticks out itself, 15 or full 15 feet longer than the other lots that are too-it's right or too-your-left as you're looking at this plan. So it's not an apples-to-apples comparison of where the rear yard of the building, or where the rear building of the neighbors are versus where the rear building of ours is, since it runs longer than the other lots to its left. Page two, please, Madam Ambassador. This is an existing condition photo showing that 11-day parking garage structure that's existing and the existing driveway. And then you can see there's a red car. So that red car is roughly sitting within that easement, I mentioned, whereas the white car is outside of the easement and it's on the petitioner's property. Boston Planning points out that the plan to replace parking with housing is a goal that's illuminated in the housing and changing city 2030 Planning Document as well. And then to build into the right, you can see it there on the left and you can see a little bit on the right photo. That building to the right comes right out to the property line similar to what we're proposing and the heights are very close between what we're proposing as well. Let's go to page four actually. We'll skip this next title page and go directly to page four. There you go. I think. Yeah. All right, so what we see here is these are the first four plans with garage parking for one parking space for each unit. It also shows landscaping on the rear and the front of the building as well as standalone trees which are represented by the squares. There's three of them in between the parking port. And then the driveway itself is built on a porous cobblestone like grade to allow for maximum groundwater retention. Next slide please. So this shows that same parking area with now the second floor of living above it and for the units that these are all three bedroom two and a half bath townhouse style units. The interior is the three on the inside units two three and four are approximately 1375 square feet not including the garage and then the two end units unit one and unit five are just under 1500 square feet each. Next slide please. So this shows you force three so the third floor where you have two bedrooms and a bath and then the two third floor if you will above where you have the third bedroom and the bath. Hold back. Next slide please. So here what you have is the left side elevation. This face is 220 marginal street. You can see this gradual decreasing per unit of one and a half feet per unit. So it starts at the corner slide, the sidewalk at 41 and a half at the top top of the building. So technical height might be slightly less but that corner slide is shown at 41 and a half which is close to the building to the right and then as a result of the grading of the slope of this site which slopes backwards as I mentioned it drops to all the way down to the top of that being about 35 feet 35 and a half feet and the architect made sure that the window placement was deliberately placed such a way that does not line up with windows from the other body property which is still probably about 20 or 25 feet away from this face. Next slide please. Then this is the other side of that building as viewed from the other building. Again windows were laid out to not align the body property. So this is elevation so the front on the left and as you can see here that step back or that step back of that two third floor there was deliberate again so as to step back from the neighbor at 220 marginal street and now on the other side that's from the view of the building. Next slide please. Here we've roughed in the other buildings to show you I know that since there's a distance between the building to the left and the proposed building. Next slide please. And here's a rendering of how the property will fit you know into the site with the landscaping to further assist that. I'll just mention the zone where the first one I share the use this is a multi-family within a three up and district by the additional lot area that's required per unit was triggered. The FAR here is only 1.33 but the FAR for the code is a 0.8 in this area. The building height we are triggering height and stories so we're at three and two thirds stories and we would need to be at three for this area and the height I mentioned was 41.5 at the top most corners in a 35 open space now open space we were able to increase that but we still are only at 300 per unit where 650 is cited in the code per dwelling. The front yard we were cited for were probably close to modal but we do provide a most study. The side yard on one side we're well over that side yard and we step back only three on the right hand side in order to make a substantial step back on that left hand side and normally a 10 is required and so again the rear yard we were cited by the rear yard we just you know at this site requires a 30 but I'll point out that at 16 and a quarter we're pretty close to the 20 that cited for multi-family sub districts I think that's worth mentioning. The final thing to say here is that the boss is for today is still for the six unit building so I'm not sure how they would respond to the five unit building that we're presenting here to you they we did listen to them we didn't get all the way you know we didn't get to 30 we couldn't this building probably wouldn't be available in that case but we really did pull this back in order to reflect on those comments that they made and but still their comments are still relating to the older six unit and not this five applause there. Thank you Mr. Hampton would you like to weigh in because that was my first question. Thank you Madam Chair members and the board Jeff Hampton City Boston Planning Department. This is something where I don't think the plans really caught up because even looking through what I have now I do not have a stamp set from ISD showing the five I only have it for the six which is why we still based our recommendation on the six I wouldn't want to guess how we would weigh in on a five unit building I will say for the record though that we do appreciate the developers effort to take all of our recommendation on our previous previous recommendation and integrate that into the new plans but not having a stamp set for my ISD I be weary to offer any change in our recommendation so right now I'm going to stand with our original recommendation and recommend denial without prejudice. Thank you. Questions from the board? I have a question um this isn't really particularly oriented to the street you know with all the brown marble as garage was there any consideration to sort of make that fun elevation a little bit more attractive along the street skateboard restaurant finally. Yeah I mean through the chair this very well it's a fair observation all the other schemes that we presented were front facing schemes I mean this is a situation where you have a long narrow lot and in those situations it's not a surprise that we're in front of your board you know it's just a completely different lot than anything a lot surrounded in the sub district and given its length and it's I mean you saw that 11 big garage given its length it really became the only way we could create more units but you know increase the setback from your butters and respond to some of the concerns that they were presenting all the other schemes that did have front facing they sort of landed with a thought they just they didn't work and we couldn't get there this is the closest we've been and while it doesn't face the street like like some of the other houses you do see these types of buildings throughout Boston particularly when you have these long-neural lots in this situation. Mr. Ross can you can you comment whether you've gone back to the community with this updated proposal you know we received a lot of continue to receive a lot of opposition on this and it's unclear to me whether they're whether they've seen this version or the last version. Yeah we did I mean as recently as after that meeting with with you in August thanks to the good offices of councilor Walrell he hosted a meeting with the directed butter where we represented these plans and we probably had six or seven community meetings on the last one being the six unit and then this was an effort to just pull back that fifth to the fifth five units and then that meeting was held with the most affected a butter the owner of that house you see in front of you 220 marginal where we presented this plan and I don't I don't think we got there we we had tried but this is really this is the best that the team could do in terms of you know whittling this down to the most buildable lot that we can that we can build. Okay so just to clarify only the it sounds to me what you said is only the direct butter has seen this version is that accurate. Yeah well yeah I mean I honestly now require it a fifth or six a butter meeting on this on this removal of that back unit they did see the six unit plan. We re-advertise this with the Zoning Borough P.O. so the advertisement you see in front of you today says five units we're not here on the six unit scheme. Any other questions from the board? Yes I have a small accordion. I just have one small question in the near future will this be ownership or rental property? I believe I believe that I'm almost no this is absolutely ownership this is ownership and the reason why that's I'm I had to remember because I have a couple projects before you today is because questions like where to put out the garbage for example came up and that's something that can be worked through in the condo docs and exactly how people can put their garbage in. Also parking no one can park in front of the in front of the driveways that's going to be putting the condo docs as well. Those were issues that came out and with condos you can control that a lot better than with rentals. I got just one more question is it any more townhouses or magnolia street? There are a range of everything on Magnolia street you know from the building to our right which is that kind of typical apartment building and to this two family almost more residential to our left across the street there's one family but then there are multi families all up and down the street you have literally everything and I would suspect that somewhere up there there are the townhouse designs well but I cannot completely recall but if you take a little Google walk you'll see there's there's almost every kind of property out there. Okay thank you thank you Mr. Haken. Yeah I think I just wanted to understand a little bit more the the lot with and the part of the challenge and it looks like you have a 46 foot wide lot it looks like you do give me you have a what-eat-foot easement so because I'm just trying to understand when you're talking about the uniqueness in a lot being a very deep and narrow I'm struggling with the narrowness of it in terms of why that's preventing street frontage it seems like it's just a desire to address the the unit typologies and less the street than less the actual narrowness in a lot so just to walk us through that place. Yeah well I mean the easement itself and the driveway do not help the narrowness of this of this condition it might be 46 but but we have to maintain that easement for the abutting property so our desire to say retool that driveway if that for example that's off the table so now we have to preserve the driveway that you see right there so the real space that we have to work with is not the full 46 width of that lot it's minus you know within the end that will be about 10 or 12 feet that's really what we're working with ongoing all the way down with every scheme we had to leave that open and the easement itself does not allow building above it so that further complicated the dynamics of this particular parcel. Thank you any other questions from the board? Thank you. Very none can I have public testimony? Madam Chair and members of the board for the record my name is Jeremy Vembrie and the Rotterbury Community Engagement Specialist for the Office of Negro and Services. The Ambulance can ask complete of the community process which consisted of an abutters meeting on May 22nd where the year was there was heavy heavy opposition from all the voters. The major concerns were the size of the project setting it is too large for the neighborhood as well as congestion parking rodents. The direct abutter has voice concerns of the surrounding foundation. The project was presented to the civic group Roxbury neighborhood council where again the project was met with heavy opposition referencing the size of the project. It was important to oppose the project. They were asked to come back if there were any changes to the unit count which I don't believe that has been set up at this time. We have also received a box on the 13 letters of opposition from director Buddhist Jefferson and received incentive to the sonic board. Thank you for your time and the rest office of neighborhood services. I'd like to defer to the board for the judgment at this time. Thank you. I'm playing in. We're in Madam Chair because of the board. Our names are Bill O'Becky and the council are by WRL. The regards to the 26 Magnolia Street. However, the many letters of opposition from the butter neighbors due to the excessive height of the council who go under our grid as deferring to the judgment of the board. Thank you. Hi, Tamika and then Mike. Hi, my name is Tamika. I'm actually the director of the butter about this project. I'm definitely in opposition of this project. Of this project, this five unit never went on to the community process. So a lot of the neighbors didn't even know nothing about the five units, including myself. So I'm kind of a part that he even said that I knew about this when it was proposed for six units and six parking spaces. And we did not go through the direct community process correctly. Also, I have safety environmental concerns. I also have a family member that has a disability. So I feel like he's trying to encroach by driveway that's been utilized for my family for many years and try to consider five units and also six, I mean five units and five whatever it is now, since he kind of drastically changed these these plans at the last minute and not go through the formal process. The fact that the fact of the matter is C-Lon Park is definitely behind where where I live since we're bringing this up. The fact that there's environmental concerns, a best those concerns. The fact that the part we created should be a way of this proposed project because in the fact that if they're going to start doing it on a couple ground here, that's going to be imposing on C-Lon Park or contaminating the grounds. That needs to be addressed. There's a fire hydrant also in front of that parcel as well. And not only that, I'm concerned about a best old spin stack of Rodgers old. And like I said, my family's been living here for many, many years. As far as the parking spaces go, we've been the one taking care of that driveway for many, many years on, down on. So I'm just speaking on behalf of my family members. Since my family don't want to be on this being because they're too disgusted about this whole process. So I'm speaking on behalf of myself since I am the director but that he's referring to. That did not know anything about those five units in those five plans being changed as quickly. Thank you, ma'am. My name is Michael Closon project right 3208. I'm a member of the Yavonu. We hosted several meetings and worked with several neighbors expressing their concerns. In addition, we still feel that building is still aesthetically higher because of the upslope over the two-family house that the buddy house of the Johnson's. We feel that there's questions about what's the water rental coming in off of the slope from that property down their driveway down into the a budding property. As you notice, the grudges of the building properties, all the headlights will be faced right into the property. Several of the windows, despite the realignment still will be able to appear into the a budding property with no privacy as well. So we feel that there's still significant issues. They have not completed the fall through with this new project with the community process. Plus if they don't have the stamp approval of these designs with planning, then how can we respond and interact with how planning department has expressed their concerns from before? So we still stand in opposition to this proposal. Thank you. I have to go online and so I was pulling that out at the moment. Okay. So we have to go with the show. Let me just... Yes, I know that. I want to keep you from that. Okay. Okay. This is with that, Kony, on behalf of my cousin, Boris and fine association. And we are also opposed. We honestly believe that the process has to be here too. And people living in the neighborhood should have a say because of the fact that if they're going to change anything, if they did as a right, that'll be one thing. But I don't believe that this is a garage. So the fact that that hasn't happened is very concerning. So we... Thank you. Thank you. No additional waste hands. Mr. Ross, can you address that? So it doesn't sound like people are aware of these changes and we also just comment on the driveway issue as to whether that impede on 220's driveway. Well, it does not. The easement is a shared easement. Both parties are allowed to use it. It is on the land that is owned by the petitioner. The white car I showed you in those plans is the abutters car being parked on the petitioner's property outside of the easement. That red car was in the easement. The only part of that driveway that shared is that red car part. But nonetheless, we kept that parking area completely open. This has been an acrimonious process as you might have picked up. The developer lives within a mile of this proposed location, yet he's been accused over and over as being some out of town person who's coming into this neighborhood to build something. As the plans evolved and changed, they were specifically designed to respond to the comments that you heard. The extent where we're now left with comments that really don't no longer bear on the massing of the structure, talking about water runoff and those things. In fact, the basement was removed from this property, which was previously the location of the parking. So it has to not provide any further disruption to the foundations, which was an issue that came up over and over again. That substantial setback from the abutters property was designed to accommodate the concerns. I will also swear to you as an attorney and an officer at the court that we met with the abutters and showed her these plans the five unit plans. In terms of the, we had probably, like I said, six or seven community meetings. Several of them were these advertised abutter meetings that were held. I don't think it's uncommon for a petitioner to appear before the board with a lesser included plan, essentially removing that floor to accommodate and meet the concerns that were raised in the neighborhood process. That's the exact circumstance we find ourselves here. What we're providing is a lesser included version of what was initially proposed in order to meet those community plans. It was done in an effort not to be wielded as a weapon, but to be used as a bridge to get there. What you're hearing is that that's now become the basis for which this plan shouldn't properly be before you, which I suggest it should be. So it's just was a very aqua-monial process. I wasn't pleasant, but we tried to make the best of it. We tried to present something that was respectful. The headlights will not hit the other abutter, the the cars will pull into the parking and pull out of the parking and leave the parking without hitting the abutter. The entire plan was designed in such a way to try to meet the concerns, but every time we tried to meet one concern, a new concern popped up. At this point, the petitioner just said, look, let's just go forward and there's nothing else he can do. We tried every iteration. I will say to a member, we will's comment. We could put a front door on that, on the front of that building. That could be placed and that would be a very easy provider to add because I do think that that's a fair point. Thank you. Just good. Does look like there are additional community waste hands? Sure. I do want to go back to the comment. Yes. That's Holly Shever. Holly and then the Garrison Trotter, neighborhood association. Thank you, Madam Chair. I'm a member of the Rocksbury Neighborhood Council and we did meet with this project after hearing from the abutters about their disapproval of the project and its oversized. We invited the proponents to come back with a reduced plan if there was going to be one and have not heard from them. This really seems like a slide of hand to not give the new plan to the PDA and I love the other parties that we're trying to do this project and again we disagree with the height and the oversized structure. Thank you, Madam. Just to confirm the last version you've seen is the 60 unit version. Yes. Thank you. Okay, I'll try. It's this and so a client was from our Rockbury Neighbor Council speaking and yes, there are no stamp plans and the fact that it's nice that one resident was involved with the change in the number of units but as a new change of project there should be a process for you to go back to the abutters and the community to let them know it shouldn't be just one meeting. So I think that the entire process has been just ineffective in communicating with residents and I don't understand why headlights would not be the cars pointing to a building would not be seen in a budding neighbors home. So this project is I believe denial without prejudice is a good situation until they go before the community. Have the review done and come back with an explanation. I still don't know if the butter is still going to be a little park as they have for years in their driveway. That's not clear. In the crib that's being shown, I don't believe we'll allow cars to go into the other side. There are still questions and I think that we need to have the answer before we upload this project. Thank you. Okay. Any other questions from the board? Hearing none can have a motion? Madam Chair, I want like one note that the board does have stamped plans from ISD. It just sounds like perhaps they didn't make its way to planning. But I'm going to put forward a motion of denial without prejudice. I think this needs a little more work, you know, as members of the board were always considering can things be fixed in design review but I think the issues driving this site sort of outweigh anything that can be fixed in design review. So I'm going to make a motion of denial without prejudice. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Stambrick. Yeah. Mr. Balancina. I am okay with the five units. I think they made changes from 8 to 6 and then to 5. So I'm okay with the number of units but I agree with it. We will that they need to just go back to the planning department to share the new drawings and go back to the residents in the area, the aborers. It showed them the changes that they have made based on the request. I'm okay with the number of units but I am going to vote yes to the motion that is we would present it. Thank you. That sounds like Mr. Alvin. Yes. Yes we will. Yes. Mr. Stambrick. Oh, oh. I'm sorry, I got another noise. Yes, I agree with the we do else motion. I vote yes for that. I do understand that the lot has certain constraints that make it different with and different death and others but there's real issues to deal with on the street. Front and cheer, the orientation of the buildings, the height and the setback from the property line and there are likely ways to do that to achieve an outcome that's reasonable. And so I will that's my last motion to defer without prejudice. Yes. Then I will have prejudice. Uh, the chair votes yes, the motion carries. Next we have case 0A 163 2317 with the address of 61 wins in street. If the applicant is there representative and will they represent our president will they please be by the case? Mr. Secretary, this is Mike Ross again, when the address of place, Pinsel Bell. I'm here with on behalf of the property owner Phoebe Nguyen a long time dourchette the resident who lives across the street from this property. I'm also here with the architect Arten Sidiqou. So the plan here is to replace an existing ranch style one family home with a three story six unit building with balconies and parking. I was initially in front of the board one month ago but we pulled the plan in order to pull the building back just slightly in order to allow for buffering around the parking area. There was no buffering around the parking area and they know it comes up from time to time here. So we did that and we came we came back. This rendering here shows an existing one family ranch to the right. So the proposed is would have been one of two ranches that were in succession. So there's that other ranch is to the right and then but you see a pretty high three family to your left roughed in there. I think we have a photo that we'll show you in a second. The parking will be accessed where that red car is using the existing driveway on the right hand side of the building. Next slide please. So here what you see is the site plan. You'll see the five parking spaces behind the building and you'll now see that five foot buffer along those parking spaces that wasn't there previously that we're since added. Next slide please. So this is that photograph that shows the existing property that ranch with the existing driveway and curb cut as well as that taller building with the gable roof to the left of the property and then in the foreground you can't see it as another ranch roughly the same shape and dimension of what you see in that photo. Next slide please. So here we have that landscape plan where there's a diverse planting of trees and bushes and then there's also a zoning chart on this page. Okay. Next slide please. The basement is just all storage accessible along the side and also through the main stair. And it also has a bike storage room as well. Next slide please. So here's there's the first floor units one and two. They're both two bedroom two baths and they're both just over a thousand square feet each. And the next slide please. You'll see the second and third floor plans. These are units three and four and five and six. They're also two bedroom two baths. They're around 1142 and you can see that there are balconies off of each of the living rooms of these units. So there's a total of four balconies coming off of the those four units. Next slide please. Here you have the front elevation with protruding base. The heights consistent with the 35 height limitation or at 31 and a half feet. You can see those balconies coming off the sides. Here we have the side elevation. This actually reveals that kind of first floor pulled back in order to allow for that buffering accommodation that we made to the barking area. And that reduced that resulted in a slight reduction in the square footage as well. Next slide. And then this is just the rear of the elevation. Yeah and so just on zoning man chair off-street parking this we have five spaces but seven and a half are required. There's a maneuverability site. These spaces are eight and a half by 15. Probably go out to the site plan now investor. The building alignment we were cited for for the front yard for article 65A for use. This is a multi-family and a two-off district. FAR here is a .5 in this neighborhood. We're at 1.17. Building height is fine but stories is not we're three and a 2.5. The side yard we're close we're seven point eight on one side and 12.5 on the other and eight ten. Pause it. Sure. Questions from the board? One quick question what has informed having just a 15 foot deep parking spot? That maneuverability or something else? Yeah I'm I'm not sure if the report came up here. I couldn't lay my hands on it. Our time is on the call. The architect he wants to to to chime in. We couldn't get that full zone required dimension and so that triggered the maneuverability I believe. Just to add to that thank you Mr. Aiken. The Boston Transportation Department is recommending the removal of one parking space. I think they are recommending to remove from one so far to four and to design the parking in 45 degree angle. I'm not sure if Mr. Femiko is here if he wants to add any more to his comment but Mr. Brown so you have any then you have any conversations with the transportation department or I'll change the parking configuration? No I mean we assume that if we had to do that we would do that and accommodate that that requirement but we did want to try to get at least close to the one unit per one space per unit. We understand the comment. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Mr. Domingo did you want to ask that? Yes Madam Chair Lady and members of the board of Domingo B2D. 15 feet is much much too small. The minimum we have is usually 18 feet so there's no way five spaces can fit based on the plans that have been submitted. However if the parking spaces are placed on a 45 degree angle then you can fit four but 15 foot in length and five spaces it just won't work so I just wanted the board to know that. Thank you. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? You're not in front of public testimony? Yes Madam Chair members of the board call our Newman with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This time the Mayor is offered to defer to the judgment of this board. I do personal changes we have a lot of information from the initial abolishment or the applicant did go on to meet with the Fields Point or Civic Association which was supportive of this proposal without defer to the board at this time. Thank you. Thank you. Any other questions? Hearing none may I have motion? I'm sure I make a motion of approval with the Department of Review and I promise the project removes one parking space and improves parking configuration. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Stemberidge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Lennon. Yes. Is we well? Yes. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Chair votes yes. The motion carries. Please. Thank you. Thank you. Next we have cases B.O.A. 157-56-00 for the adges. 314-00 Street. Yeah we can't stand on their representative or president but they put the case for board. Yes Mr. Stemberidge. Good afternoon Madam Chair members of the board. Attorney Justin Burns from Virginia. Norton Business Address. 10 Forbes Road. Brain Tree Mass. I'm here on behalf of the proponent owner of this project. Daniel Rose. Also with me today is Chris Drew. 686 architects who will present the plans. Just to provide a quick overview this is a proposal to construct a three-story three unit apartment building with three off-street parking spaces upon a currently existing vacant lot at 214 Norwell Street and Dorchester. This lot is currently paved with asphalt and is being used as a parking lot for a 212 Norwell. The mix of the building would be as follows. Unit 1 would be the first floor unit that would be three bed one bath at 769 square feet. Unit 2 would be the second floor unit three bed two bath one thousand seventy seven square feet and unit 3 would be the third floor unit three bed two bath one thousand seventy seven square feet. I just want to note that this property is de-restricted as a yard sale property and according with the proponent has entered into a preliminary agreement with MOH to provide one of the three units as an affordable unit. That agreement has been signed by both parties and has been provided to ZBA. Additionally as part of our conversations with MOH we updated our initial floor plans from the first time that we came to the board that deferred for that reason back in September. Originally that first floor unit had two beds after talking to MOH we wanted continuity amongst the units so that the affordable unit would be the same as the two units above. So now all units are three beds. These updates had no impact on our violations that were reviewed by ISD prior to coming to the board and they were also supplied to ZBA. I will now pass it off to Chris Drew to go over the plans. Chris thank you Justin. I'm again and I'm just going over to do it one of these ground floor plans that threw better one down. The second floor is a threw better two beds as well as the third floor is a threw better two beds. The two beds the two units three are just over a thousand square feet and unit one is about seven hundred just under eight hundred square feet about seven hundred and sixty eight square feet. The oldies themselves are pretty pretty generically typical three-decker. We also pay attention to the healthy persons but also take away a lot of the pain in that currently system and we want to get more free space. On this point I'm happy to answer any questions and go through. Thank you are there questions from the board? Hearing none can have public testimony. Madam Chair and members of the board for the work in Biden's generally and the mid-June Justice Committee engaged with specialists for the Office of Neighborhood Services. Now I can ask completed the community process which consisted of an abuters meeting on June 13th no one but as attended and no concerned for voice. The project then went before the civic west of Washington who voted to support the project the letter of support which was received at cent to the zone board. Thank you for your time and members of the neighborhood services were likely to be referred to the board of the judgment at the staff. Thank you. Okay we have no based hands. A moment. Okay but that may I have a motion? Well should I make a motion of a go ahead or no go go go ahead you. Thank you. I make a motion of a move as we start planning the parliament from you. Madam the second. The second. The second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes ma'am. Ms. Weewell. Yes. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Chair votes yes the motion carries. Thank you very much. Thank you. Next we have case beaway 1398736. We have to add here so five Warren Avenue. If the applicant and or their representative president. Would they please explain the case to the board? Good afternoon Madam Chair and members of the board. This is a training John D. Barry from the largest is a John D. Barry. Look at it at 10 forbs road west sweet 210 and brain tree mass with me on this particular project is James Christopher the principal manager of six eight six architects. We share a similar opposite of the 10 forbs road. Essentially what this proposal is is to erect a new structure altogether and convert the occupancy of the existing site or made to family to a nine unit structure. The proposed parking would be entirely enclosed below at at great below the building. This is five Warren Avenue located in high park. It is a three F four thousand zoning sub district of the high park neighborhood. And if we could actually highlight the not this particular slide the one that is one more now. Ambassador if you could. Yep. What I wanted to highlight here for the board is just a little bit of the context history of this particular proposal. So this proposal was filed in July of 2022. The reason for the time that it's taken for us to get in front of this board is actually the amount of work that we've done in the community and with various engineers and architectural firms. Actually we're changed as we were going through this process and the concom aspect of this particular proposal. We have not gone before concom not out of a desire to come to the CBA first or rather that concom requested that we get approvals from the zoning board in order to complete that process. What I would like to highlight though is I think this picture right here this survey actually tells the story of how we got to where we got. So ultimately this was a 10 unit project we ultimately had to shrink it to nine in order to make the building as tight as possible and outside of that 25 foot buffer line. There was initially a BPD a recommendation. Most related to how close the building sits right now to the front of the lot. And also we shifted the building in order to accommodate BPD a recommendation and moving it in this picture to your right ultimately at the site it is as far west as the building can be placed just for context as well for the board. All of the sites surrounding this particular site it's a very commercial you-haul facility and to the north of the picture that you're looking at right here there's a roughly four-story 45 unit apartment building owned by Mr. Garrity or the Garrity Company. I bring all of that up to say we understand the context this is a larger building for a three or four thousand neighborhood but when you're taken to account that this is roughly a nine thousand square foot lot and what is going on around this particular site we feel that this is actually a good proposal for the community. It's a huge enhancement to the site and actually if this was to be approved and after concomit will make the condition that the site better than it currently exists. Moving through the plans we can move forward to the next slide. This lays out the parking so there is a BPD a recommendation that some of the parking that may be maneuverability or size issues. The reason why we left this as this is as this board to where all of that could be addressed during the planning department review. We were trying to keep as many parking spots as possible both underneath the building and off the site to allow for as much green space as possible which right now is roughly 5,300 square feet of green space on this particular site. If the planning department has some issues with maneuverability of the size of any of these spots they can certainly amend that during their review of this particular site moving forward. Go to the next page please. This is just roughly the basement is going to be just simple storage and for the elevator shaft. Next slide please. If we could go one more that's the same as the site plan. It's actually all the floors mimic each other. Each floor right now consists of a one a two and a three bedroom. The unit number one in this particular floor is a one bedroom one bath at 742 square feet unit two is a two bedroom two bath it's 996 square feet unit three is a three bedroom two bath that's 1224 square feet each floor mimics each other as you go up ranging the one bedroom three range of 742 square feet to roughly 908 square feet on the third floor. The two bedrooms range from 971 square feet to 996 and the three bedrooms range from 1107 square feet to 1224. Going through the zoning code violations that we're addressing here. The code in this particular area would request 18 parking spots nine was the amount that we could fit underneath the building without having to put parking on the site and take away any of the green space. The FAR that's the code requires a point eight here we are at one point one. We did run into violations for both height and stories so the building sits at 51 feet and have four stories to accommodate that first story of parking and there is the front yard in this particular area would recommend 20 feet. The final rendition that we put before this board has a belief maybe five feet or six foot front yard in order to accommodate the Boston's plan as far as the open streets plan but if the BPDA would would like the building to be shifted back we wanted to show something that was as far outside of that buffer zone as possible that we previously highlighted and there is a rear yard step back in a side yard. The side yard was triggered by moving the building as far to the west of the site and keeping it away from the river as far as possible. So with that I'm going to pause and see if there's any questions from the board. Thank you. Any questions from the board? I have a couple but I'll just start with one bit of chair. My first question is just that you have two you have two plot plans or surveys here and it looks like the 25 foot wetlands buffer line is in very different locations on both of them. Can you just explain that because obviously that informs the design of the building. So initially the first one I believe was done. The second one is the one that we did have checked both by the engineer that is producing all the plans for hopefully our concom application. I promise you that that is the correct one we actually did repile this set of plans in the nature that it got before the board that had the corrected one with the 25 foot buffer line sitting outside of this structure. The vice-vision commission has not yet agreed to that. No, you have not filed because you have not filed. We tried they said that they wanted to see some set of final plans in us to come before the zoning board before we could file with them. Thank you. Any other questions? Hearing none can I public testimony? Is anyone on for this case? Okay, hearing none is there any discussion? Madam Chair, members of the board, Conor Nguyen with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. At this time, Mayor's Office could defer to the judgment of this board. Previously on this had run in a butters meeting. You know, there had been a desire from residents to try to have as much parking as possible for this site during the process with the High Park Neighborhood Association which you heard from the applicant. There was a desire for them to reach out to the Conservation Commission which they did make contact with in the commission just ask that if approved the applicant return back to the commission and continue to work with them on the final design without referring to the board this time. Thank you. Thank you. Any other raised hands? Yes. Sorry, Madam Chair, I have no other shindra open on it. Okay. May I have a motion? How about a motion to approve with BPD 8 design review? The second. The second. Mr. Temperature. Yeah? Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes, ma'am. Ms. Weel. Yes. Mr. Aiken. Yes. The Chair votes. Yes. The motion carries. Thank you, Madam Chair. Members in support. Okay. So it looks like are we waiting until one to hear the reconsideration? Yes, we are. All right. See you, everyone. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Because we know we have an agreement. Just start with a conclusion. It's, it's relief based on shallow lots. And other types of lots, like that. And that's why we're here in the first place. So I'll pause there. Now, I hope that these arguments that move the board a little bit. Thank you. for the motion? Also Madam Chair, just to clarify, the vote is just whether or not it can be reconsidered not whether or not to support the budget just as a voter reminder. Thank you. Thank you for the reminder. So yes, we are just voting on reconsidering, re-hearing the case. Are there any questions from the board? Is there a motion from the board? Motion through a motion through approval. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes, yes. Thank you. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Chair votes, yes. The motion carries. Thank you. I appreciate it. All right. Thank you, everyone. See you next time. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.