 Once you've applied for a permit, your application and associated plans will be reviewed by a plans examiner at the Inspectional Services Department or ISD. If your plans comply with the neighborhood zoning code, your application will be approved. However, if your project does not comply with the zoning code, you will be issued a refusal letter. If you would still like to pursue your project, you have the right to appeal this denial to the zoning board of appeals, or ZBA. Let's take a closer look at what a refusal letter can look like. Here's a sample refusal letter. You'll be issued a refusal letter if a plans examiner has reviewed the plans for your proposed project, and you are not in compliance with the zoning code articles applicable to your neighborhood. The refusal letter will cite the code provisions that were violated by your proposed plans. You may then file an appeal to the refusal letter and apply for a variance from these noted violations. The first step in the ZBA process is to file an application for an appeals hearing at an ISD key-off on the 5th floor of 1010 Mass App. The fee for the application to appeal is $150, plus $150 per code violation. ISD will then send you a notice to confirm that they have received your application to appeal. From this point, you should expect to wait several months before your hearing takes place. Let's take a look at the necessary steps prior to your hearing. First, you should contact your mayor's office neighborhood liaison to initiate the community process. Once the community process is well underway, your neighborhood liaison will notify ISD to send you your hearing date. You should receive this notification within 14 days. The hearing date that you will receive will be at least three weeks away. This gives you time to finish up the community process and allows ISD to notify all property owning a butters within a 300-foot radius of your project and advertise the hearing in the Boston Harold for two days. Not the hearing, you or your representative, such as an attorney, consultant or architect, will describe your proposal and discuss your need for a variance from the zoning code to continue your project. Your appeal can be approved, deferred for more information, or denied. There are two types of denial. If your appeal receives a straight denial, you must wait one year before reapplying. However, if you receive a denial without prejudice, you have up to six months to reapply. In some cases, your approval may come with conditions, such as BRA Design Review. You must meet these conditions within 90 days. Once you've received verbal approval at your ZBA hearing, there are still a few more steps that need to be taken before you are issued your permit. The decision must be transcribed into a legal document, signed by the City of Boston Law Department and all ZBA voting board members. ISD will then notify all property owning a butters within a 300-foot radius of your project of the decision. These a butters will have up to 20 calendar days to appeal the ZBA's decision via a land court or a superior court. If there are no appeals after 20 days, check in with your plans examiner for any additional requirements, such as compliance with the Boston Fire Department or Boston Water and sewer regulations. Zoning in the appeals process may just be one step towards opening your business, but it's a significant one. Navigating and completing this process will help position your small business for success.