 you you you at Britain In order to ensure this hearing of the board is open to the public, members of the public may access this hearing through telephone and video conferencing. The information for connecting to this hearing is listed on today's hearing agenda, which is posted on the public notices page of the city's website, Boston.gov. Members of the public will enter the virtual hearing as attendees, which means you will not see yourself on the screen and you will be muted throughout unless administratively unmuted when asked to comment. Other members, applicants and their attorneys or representatives will participate in the hearing as panelists and there will appear alongside the presentation materials when speaking. Panelists are strongly encouraged to keep video on while presenting to the board. As with our in-person meetings, comments and support will be followed by comments in opposition. The order of comments is as follows. Selected officials, representatives on what the officials and members of the public. The chair may limit the number of people called upon to offer a comment and the time for commenting as time constraints require. For that reason, the board prefers to hear from members of the public who are most impacted by a topic that is those of the videos who have closed this to the project. If you wish to comment on an appeal, please click the raise hand button along the bottom of your screen in the Zoom webinar platform. Click it again and your hands should go down. When the host sees your hand and you receive a request to unmute yourself, select yes and you should be able to talk. If you are connected to the hearing by telephone, please press star nine to raise and lower your hand. You must press star six to unmute yourself after you receive the request from the host. Those called upon to comment will be asked to state their name and address first and then can provide their comment. In an interest of time and to ensure that you have enough time to do so, please raise your hand as soon as Mr. Stember treats the address into the record. You may not raise your hand before the relevant address is called or the meeting host will not know to call on you at the appropriate time. Okay. Mr. Stemberidge. Good morning, Madam Chair. Good morning. Good morning, Mr. Langham. You are on mute, but I see you. Right? Mr. Eiken. Good morning, Madam Chair. Right? Uh, Mr. Eiken. Good morning, Madam Chair. You're morning. Mr. Collins. Morning, Madam Chair, President. Good morning, Ms. Panado. Good morning, Madam Chair, President. Good morning, Ms. Lee Lowe. Good morning, Madam Chair, President. Okay. The floor is yours, Mr. Stemberidge. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you. Thank you for coming back here. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I make a motion to grant all these extensions in these cases. As requested. As requested. May I have a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Mr. Collins. Mr. Collins. Thank you, Mr. Collins. Thank you, Mr. Collins. Thank you, Mr. Pado. Yes. As we well. Yes. Chair also votes yes. The motion carries. I have a question on that. We're chair to council just before we move on because each of those has different dates. I'm just wondering how that's memorialized. That's why it's a motion to grant the extensions as requested. So all of those. All of them have made written requests to. I. So it's just based on what. What I asked you have on paper not based on this. Nothing here. I'm not going to say that. Is that why. I. Where because he was confused though. What I asked you. Yeah. You were the only one saying. Jay. Because you support weight Enemy. Or committee. The priority is to rings me out. If anyone has on paper, not based on this, nothing here. The recording captures those states. So. That's fine. It's fine. Next room move on to the recommendation of schedule for 930 from previous subcommittee meeting We'll begin with case B08 1058 49 44 with the address of 82 to 96 of Westland Avenue Case was approved Then we have case B08 15728 85 with the address of 3 blue street That case was approved Next we have case B08 150 3897 with the address of 2010 to adjust the revenue the case was approved Next we have case B08 158 57 46 with the address of 45 to 47 45 to 0 The case was approved Next we have case B08 157 58 68 with the address of 294 Metropolitan Avenue The case was approved with BP in design review paying attention to the move's work Next we have case B08 155 5203 with the address of 50 Westland Street The case was approved with BP in review paying attention to preserving the tree that was on the property Next we have case B08 149 58 09 with the address of 8 friendship road and case was approved Next we have case B08 153 8400 with the address of 3 yellow street and case was approved Next we have case B08 153 8456 with the address of 94 Westland Street but it was also approved Then we have case B08 155 154 675 with the address of 5 Reynolds Road which was approved Next we have case B08 154 97 3 6 with the address of 43 North Street which was approved Then we have case B08 155 248 with the address of 340 paper street This case was deferred until June 13th of this year Next we have case B08 155 55 663 with the address of 108 Reynolds Street This meeting is being approved which was approved Finally we have case B08 151 83 8400 with the address of 1 4 Child Street which was approved with the pdm design review It is all the recommendations I have not yet Thank you May I have a motion? This meeting is being approved This meeting is being approved Motion to approve the recommendations May I have a second? Second Mr. Stumbridge Yes Mr. Langham Yes Mr. Aiken Mr. Collins Yes Ms. Panado Yes Ms. Wewell Mr. Carries Now we move on to the Roundwater Conservation Overwaid District here Do you want to ask about the frontels or the thrusters? Do that If there are any Refreshing rules from the time Here is my friend Ben Pleasant No raise hands Okay Thank you Going on to the Roundwater Conservation Here For us we have case B08 154 228 0 With the address of 162 Point of St. The App The App The App The App I have some of the streets Boston and the App The Petician This is a straightforward Gcon only Based upon the threshold For the amount of renovations of being done to the building Exceeding more than 50% of the actual Assessed value I believe we submitted the Boston Water and Sort of Groogle as well as the No Arnletter Appedance rate of questions Thank you. Any questions from the board? Yes Madam Chair. Good morning. Members of the board. Christian Summoner. Only passing the Roundwater Trust We have both G.Cardletters from the App May I have a motion? A motion Go approved Seconds. Thank you. Mr. Semberg Mr. Semberg Okay Mr. Lam Yes Mr. Eakin Yes Mr. Collins Yes Mr. Panado Yes Is we well? Yes Sheryl Osjess motion carries Thank you. All right then Next we have case of BOA 158 4690 With the address of 173 Combo-Alamina The applicant can do the Represent Present for their explain Yes. Good morning. All favor from J.W. Construction representing the owners of 173 Combo-Alamina This also is a just a G.Card overlay district. We have the approved Boston Water and Soar and No Harm Letter that we've submitted with our application. Mr. Seminelli Madam Chair, there was a board Christian Summoner Lee Basin-Royle Trust and we had both G.Cardletters from the App Thank you. Any questions from the board? During none, ma'am motion. Mr. Mr. Mr. Fair Second Second Thank you. Overrun and Appreciate it. Mr. Semperch Yes Mr. Langham Yes, ma'am Mr. Eakin Yes Mr. Collins Yes Mr. Panado Yes Mr. Mielow Yes Chair votes yes, the motion carries. Moving on to President of the hearing schedule for 930. First we have a case of B.O.A. 154 6998 with the address of 545 East Second Street If the applicant gets and or their representative President of the Expo into the board please. Yes, thank you Mr. Semperch. Madam Chair, members of the board Attorney Ryan Spitz, Adams and Marancy Business Anderson 168H Street, First Law South Boston. Joining me today are the applicants Tim Wilson and Luke Fallon as well as the project architect Tim Johnson. I want to clarify the advertisement for the Reddit as the plans were revised which resulted in me moving two of the violations for parking and those plans are reflective in the drawings that you do have today. This is a proposal to combine three parcels and then subdivide into two lots. Lot one will be approximately 4,271 square feet which will continue to house the existing commercial use at the space. Lot two will be approximately 4,656 square feet of primarily vacant land. This plot of land proposes to erect a new four-story six-unit presidential dwelling with a nine car underground garage. All of the residential units will be home ownership and the building will be fully electric. The new lot size is approximately 4,656 square feet which resulted in a zoning violation insufficient land area as a project of this scope would require 7,000 square feet but this proposal is in line with the neighboring properties in the law for better utilization of the land. Further, there is a structural restriction violation which resulted from a pre-existing garage structure in the rear of these three parcels that is being raised. However, there is no record within the ISD jacket of that structure ever being erected. Therefore, we believe we should not have been cited for this. The proposal was located within a multi-family residential zoning sub-district. Units will all contain two bedrooms and will range from approximately 2,167 square feet to 1,427 square feet. The ground floor will consist of the garage, the underground ground floor will consist of the parking garage for nine vehicles, a trashy area with elevator access. Parking will be accessed by reducing the existing curb cut to an opening of approximately 15 feet. Second floor plan will contain units 1 and 2. Third floor plan will contain units 3 and 4. The fourth floor plan will contain units 5 and 6. Lastly, we have an additional violation for the rear yard setback. The code requires a 20-foot setback, but under section 34-10, really out of the shallow lots of the code require 18 and a half feet, and exactly what this project is proposing. But due to the fact of increasing the underground parking to accommodate additional parking, as requested during the community process, the violations didn't result. However, we believe we are conforming to underground encroachments within section 22-3 in as reflected within our drawings that you see here today. Therefore, it is our opinion that this violation should not have been incited. At this point in time, I'm going to turn it over to the board for any questions or comments. Thank you. Questions from the board? Hearing none, can I have a public testimony? Hello, Madam Chair and our members of the board, Lydia Glasski with the Mayor's Office and the Department's Services. And the button is meeting with the website on January 25th in regards to 545 a second street. The proponents also appeared before the Gate of Heaven neighborhood association to present the project. Concerns raised by the community reflect variances being sought including building pipe are a lot with an existing single-story structure, as well as lot area. Quality of life issues raised include neighborhood density and access to light and sty views. It was also mentioned at the 2010 first street corner planning process, which like the article, it was factored from the neighborhood to reduce variances along this board one, support from the community and crews, development and empty lot into housing, exterior aesthetic fits with the neighborhood, square footage comprise with our local FAR, forest-funding off-street parking per unit, sufficient open space, and multi-bedroom units which could appeal to families. The friends of the northern Broadway-studic approach of this project, the Gate of Heaven neighborhood association supports this project. Our office received eight letters of opposition from the others, and eight letters of support. At this time, our office would like to defer to the judgment of the board. Thank you. Good morning, Madam Chair and members of the board. This is Laura speaking from Coastal Sleeve's office. At this time, Coastal is in a way to go and record support based in good faith compromises on both sides during the community process. This include that the latest iteration of the proposal has increased the project to nine parking spaces. The rear of the building was shortened, the rear balcony was reduced, and the bulkhead of the roof door over the back stairs where was the semquid subsequently replaced with a hash. Coastal with flim appreciates the attention to south-western existing parking crisis. It was definitely requests that the reporting continued to work closely with on any quality of life issues of my arrest on the contractions face. Thank you. Joe, are you looking to get a test monitor? No, okay. We have a few bright hands. No, it's time to thank you. Okay, thank you. Yep. Ryan Douglas, you think you'll test them on the other proposal? Yes, good morning. Good morning, Madam Chair. Good morning, all. Ryan Douglas, on behalf of 559 East Second Street Condominium Trust. Here this morning just a couple of concerns regarding the West Facing Unit owners of 557 East Second Street. The West Facing Unit owners are a butt or two of butt or two within 45 feet from the proposed projects. Give or take a few feet. And look, you know, as a whole, we like the idea of this project. We recognize that new multi-family development is crucial in south-western, especially where there's developments that create off-street parking. I mean, that's huge. There has just mentioned that there is a crisis at the moment. But the big concern that we have here is the height of the proposed development, which after doing a shadow study has honored some pretty concerning revelations regarding shadow. We actually have a shadow study animation here. And I am prepared to share my screen to show the board that at the moment, if that would be sizable. Can I show other people's screens? Sorry. Sorry, sorry. But we're unable to have you share screen. I understand. Well, in essence, we've completed a shadow study which shows that there's significant shadow that is cast because of the fact that this is a four-story development, rather than a three-story development. We based off the same times and dates of those used by the project proponents, the additional height at four stories, as opposed to three-wheel-cast significant shadows, on the west-facing units, substantially reducing the amount of natural light that these units receive. And our studies demonstrate that these shadows will extend across the units much of the day, particularly in the afternoon hours. The reduction in natural light will impact the unit owners by diminishing their living conditions, affecting aesthetic and functional values of their homes, which of course could have an impact on property value, although the biggest issue, of course, is just out of diminished light. And that's really the legally, the particularly, legally, cognizable harm that really exists there. You know, they'll... Please wrap up. I know there are others who have brain stands. Yes, I understand. I just want to emphasize this one point to the board that, look, the unit owners understand that there's a need for housing in the South Boston, especially ones that create off-street parking, you know, I typically represent developers, and yet we have to not always, you know, assume that everyone who's opposing a project just wants to shut the whole thing down. We don't. We like this project. We just don't... It being four stories, as opposed to three, is actually going to have real, legally, cognizable harms to these unit owners. And that, to that end, we'd ask you to be denied at this point. So... Thank you. Hello. Can you hear me, okay? Yes, please. I'm a trustee of a 34-30-H Street Condo Association, the six-unit building, immediately behind the proposed development. I would like to oppose to today's motion, and the main reason mainly is nobody engaged with us, which is shocking, to be honest, on this proposal. The reference support of the Gate of Heaven Community Association is simply irrelevant. If you didn't meet with the neighbors of the adjacent abiding properties, we experienced complete absence of publicly posted information on this proposal. So I would kindly ask the board to postpone the decision on this and ask the developer to engage with us in what is through the plans. The coded violations are of high concern for all members, and I second the previous speaker on a giant wall blocking any light into the rear of our house, where we will basically be immersed in some kind of darkness. We also have receiving soil issue and impacted water flow. There is a huge drainage issue historically right by the fence in the driveway. So we are very concerned about structural damage to our building during the construction process as well. So we want to engage with the developer for a substantive discussion of the parameters of the project. Thank you. Okay, I'll go to Rob. Is there Christine? Can you say to me, Minagra, for the Wight and Development College, that you guys are for the opposition? Yeah, good morning. Thank you for holding this hearing and committing comments from the community. My name is Rob and I'm a homeowner at 557 Second Street at Unit 3, and I was for the 20 years self-hosted resident. I'm speaking in the opposition to the development of 545e Second Street, as it's pleasantly proposed. For context, my home is part of the two building 8 unit development that 557 and 559e Second Street. These buildings were constructed in around 2008, and our townhouses with front and rear foresobs that are arranged to the east and west orientations with the driveway from the second street between the two buildings that access separate single car garages for each unit. The proposed development lies to the west of our building that is separated by a two-story commercial building at 555e Second Street. While I certainly appreciate the outreach from the proponents and the work to listen to some of our concerns, the present requested variants have the negative impact on our existing homes, by at the least casting our balconies and our only source of western life on our third floors into shadow during certain times of the year, and in particular the shoulder seasons that offer the more pleasant conditions to enjoy outdoor spaces. I'd like to also point out that the zoning ordinance for this neighborhood, as some of you may recall, was a multi-year effort with considerable community input. The resulting regulations were a response to the sensitivities of the community to excessive building heights, massing, and inappropriate uses among other concerns. While we certainly sympathize with the need for housing in Boston and agree that there is a better use for the existing parcel than as it exists presently, we respectfully request adherence to the zoning ordinance for the area, in particular as I understand them. Section 29, roof structure restrictions that limits the building height to the height of any existing structure on the site, and section 8, setbacks in the lot area. Conjectually, the second street from H Street Eastward, the neighborhood has primarily composed of three story structures. In fact, the development of two H Street presently under construction across the street from our homes and approved through the article 80 process is a three story structure with parking under do. We take exception to the BPDA response to the proposed development, citing taller structures, structures contextually, and offer that these taller structures are largely limited into the west side of the H Street along the East Second. We would certainly develop these in the public buildings, not if you can keep things with the zoning ordinance, or perhaps with the ordinance that would limit the height of the building to three stories or 30 feet. Thank you. Thank you. And the manager, would you like me to keep on? Raise hands, you have? Four raise hands. I'm going to ask some of you to put your comments in the chat and go with two more. You might as well ask Christine. And please add new information. Hi, this is Christine Coleman at 543 East Second Street. And I'm actually in support of the project. I think anything would look appealing to the building as it is now. I think the parking, the nine spots is sufficient. And I think the design looks fantastic. I think it will look great in the neighborhood. Thank you. Thank you. Is that Christine with your actors? 543 East Second Street. Thank you. I'm Russell. Hi, Russell. I sent a request and you're here. Casey. Hi, Casey Roach, owner of 523A East Second Street number two. I would all like the voice of my support for the project. I think it fits in well with the neighborhood. And the applicant communicated well through me throughout the whole process. So I'd like to just voice the part, Brad. Thank you. Good comment. And I have no additional raise hands. Thanks. Thank you. It's a very interesting question from the board. Sure. Could I? Is there any chance I can just respond to some of the things that we heard briefly? It would be helpful. Yes, especially about high. I know the attorney. The attorney from the government came in and a lot of this was about height. So as you all know, we are compliant under Article 68. The requirement is 40 feet. The proposal is at 39 feet. However, we do have that through structure restriction. If you could see from the existing site plan and the rare of all these properties there, there was a structure that was a one-story garage structure that was really erected. And due to the fact that there is nothing in the ISD, Jack, we believe that we should have been bound by that through structure restriction. And then further, we do have a violation for insufficient lot area. And then as well as the rare art setback. But again, the rare art setback, we are compliant under the shallow rots, exception at the 18 and a half feet. So that would leave us typically with one de minimis violation of the additional lot area. So thank you again for letting me respond out of the chair. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? I'm sure of a question. So to me, I think the parking is expensive. So you're at about 1.5 spaces per unit when the preferred ratio is 0.75 spaces per unit. And it seems like if you had fewer parking spaces, the footprint of the building could be smaller. So was that ever considered or why is so much parking? Yes, thank you, Ms. Webel. Yes, so originally our plan, we did have the original plan had less parking. But throughout the community process, we did have it about as many, we did meet with Gay to have it civic association. And one of the concerns was to provide compliant parking. So therefore, we increased it. And again, the only increase of the actual building was underground. And again, that's, but as far as we, we, we, we appear, we, we comply with the encroachments under article section 22-3. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? May I have a motion? A motion to approve with BBA design review. I think I, I, it's good for the area. And I think that that area desperately needs parking as well. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Mr. Aiken. Yes, I think that the requests are appropriate for the context here and the site conditions. So yes. Thank you, Mr. Collins. Yes. Ms. Panato. Yes. Ms. Webel. Yes. Chair votes, yes, the motion carries. Thank you. Thank you, Madam Chair. Next, we have case B.O.A. 158-4507, with the address of 21-36-21-40 Washington Street. I've been informed by the chair that this case will be referred. How many of the applicants are there representing the president? They want to respond to the board? Sure. Good morning, Madam Chair. I'm Mr. Board of 20 Derek Small. I'm a business stressor of 51-Dops and Road. With regard to this, it has to be we advertise. There were two violations that were not advertised in the notices that went out. So, the ZBA office is scheduled to we advertise and we schedule this hearing. So we are asking for the referral. Administrative referral. Thank you. Next available is map up. June 25th. Yes. Okay, Madam motion. Make a motion to defer until June 25th, 2024. Is there a second? So, I have it. Mr. Steinbridge. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Mr. Eiken. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Pannato. Yes. Mr. Murrell. Yes. Chair votes. Yes, motion carries. Thank you. Next we have E. E. E. E. E. E. E. E. E. E. E. E. E. E. E. E. E. E. E. E. E. E. E. E. E. E. E. E. E. E. E. E. E. E. E. E. E. E. Yes. Yes. And what are the representatives present with their corresponding votes? Yes, Alok. Can you hear me? Yes, sir. Good morning, Madame Chair and Members of the Board. Thank you very much for this opportunity to appeal. We are here appealing article 10 sex, the number one limitation of street park in E. our objective here is to have two parking space, off street parking space under driveway. And we would like to have your support on taking to Castle on the street in this space for parking off to Cox. Thank you. So can you clarify where the second spot would be? We have a comment from BGD that they consider it on parking. And actually we have to let you see when we look at both part, we are removing the basement stairs. That's being removed. We're going farther back. We have space to be parking from the building to the back. There will not be a car parked in front, where the area went. I actually measured if I may, let me see if I can screen my screen. So just can I share my screen? No, you can't. So please speak to the plans you submitted to. Oh, okay. I had pictures, but if I can't, actually there is pictures that if we remove the stairs, we were able to park two cars there because we have like almost 30 to 35 feet back. And then we have to cart it. We doubt parking in front of the branches. What is the car street like? What are these resident only parking permits on the street? Are they are they? You know, anybody can park here? What is the street situation? Anybody park there? Then there's not a resident that have you. And actually, Madam Chair, we did meet with the community this weekend. And it seemed that most of the people there are in support. Having this parking Mr. Jose Gomez having our street park. And that's a problem at night. When it comes, it's very difficult to find parking on the streets. Sometimes it has to walk while so is one street fast in this yard. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? Is it's about to be going by chance? I don't know, but he submitted a written comment that was not in support due to front yard parking. That's what I need to talk about. Here's no front yard parking as we were here. If not, if you then the board decided to have one cart, then we're both in one cart. But as I measured the place, there will not be front yard parking. Other questions from the board? So we'll be taking away street parking with this curb card, I assume. There will be. That's why we wanted to move to park there. But some of the neighbors who have side yards in parking, our interest here, yes, we would take them. That's why we wanted to park to cost. Yeah. I mean, I think this board in general is not in favor of just taking away both open space and street parking for everyone to put a driveway in. If the house didn't come with that in your near transit, it doesn't necessarily fit the goals of this city in terms of our parking and transportation planning. My name is Chair. I am also believed that when somebody passed a $2 billion in Rochester, and not able, it's more an equal for other people to come and park. And you're not able to be able to park off street. It's a deconstructed ratio for the people that actually invest in Rochester, and not be able to have this, we're more friendly to visit. Okay. Thank you, Mr. Silva. And I think the way they're remedied that is organized for neighbors around resident parking. Let's open it up to public testimony. Madam Chair, members of the board, we're calling our new members of the mayor's office of neighborhood services. The Sunday Mayor's office, so you defer to the judgment of this board. We've been back information in community process, O and S. O. Smith-Lotters, meaning on November 1st, 2023. The applicant that went on to meet with the Mount Voting Veterinary Association, which voted to support this proposal. I run aware of any concerns this time without deferred to the board. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Madam Chair, we have no way to change that in the moment. Thank you. Okay. Any other comments or questions from the board? Would that may have motion? I'm going to motion to the mic just because this privatized parking. One spot is technically, it doesn't seem like it's in the front yard, but it is technically front yard parking. So you take a one spot off the street for a personalized spot. Okay. He's actually spotting with group power. We're voting now. Is there a second? That's right. Thank you. Mr. Stombridge. Uh, young. Mr. Langman. Yes. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Ms. Fernando. Yes. Ms. Mewon. Yes, and I just want to add the other reason I'm voting against this is, I want to be very mindful about where we're being asked to approve additional paving. Um, when I looked at the climate ready enough, this is a, an area with high daytime temperatures. So I just want to be very calm and about adding to that and exacerbating that. So yes. Thank you. Chair votes. Yes. The motion carries. Thank you. Thank you. Next we have to be away. One five two eight nine three one with the address of 16 Robon Street. Is the applicant and was there representing present? They're spot to the board. So Mr. Woodworth, are you presenting? Yes. Hello. Thank you, Madam. Everyone would worth nine Elizabeth Street. Representing the owner. Uh, this is a proposal for a new triple decor on a vacant lot. To provide housing to local residents. Three off street parking spaces. And we've met with both the butters and the community association and received the letter of support. We believe this is the highest and best use for this lot. Formity with the J properties and we expect that the design review process will continue to elaborate on its physical parents. Okay. Are you put something anything else or is that it? Any questions on the board? That's pretty much it. Can we see a site plan and whether there's any landscaping anticipated and the parking configuration? I think it was the other. It's a lot of work. It's in my first step. No, right there. It's pretty much the purpose of the design review is the opportunity to determine the appropriate planting. About me typically see a site plan. Yeah. One of our petitions was for usable open space. There's limited area along one side and a small backyard. To be a plant in a fashion that buffers from the joining properties. My experience is that the BPD has recommendations for planting materials that we did not anticipate or pre-judge. The owner is also present and I believe would like to comment. Is that a lot better? Yes. Good morning. Good morning. To answer your question, when you're looking at the property on the left side of the property will be all grass and then I'm going to put some brush on the left side. The right side wouldn't because that is the driveway just like my adjacent properties are laid out right now where you go down the right to allow you to get to the parking in the back. So on the property and on the left side I mean the all grass with some brush along the left side of the property. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Can I have a vote of testimony? Yes. Madam Chair, members of the board, we're cornering with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This time the Mayor's Office deferred to the judgment that's boarded some back information in the community process on SOC and about our meeting on February 21st. Residents who were in attendance were supportive of the project feeling it was in line with other building structures on that street. They met several times with the Greater Bowdoin Geneva and Ingram Association which all will be ended up supporting this proposal without deferred to the board this time. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. We haven't seen anyone else last to speak but we have no raised hands at this point. Thank you. Okay. Would that be our motion? Motion to approve the opinion design. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Iron. Yes. Mr. Eakin. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Ponnato. Yes. Mr. Rupo. Yes. Mr. Carrize. The motion carries. Good morning. Thank you. Mr. Carrize. Chair votes. Yes. The motion carries. Good morning. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Next we have case B.O.A. 156, 3876. With the address of 1905 to 1907 River Street. Is the applicant handled with the representative? Who they are explaining. Yes. Mr. Stembridge and Madam Chair members of the board. We're going to have time this morning. My name is Kyle Smith-Lowell. I'm the secretary of the business address of 359 Newbury Street, Boston's back bay. We'll do a bit of a deep. Yes. Okay. Sure. So we were in a 2F5,000 subject which requires 8,000 square feet of land to build a two family structure on it. Our lot sizes approximately 8,124 square feet. So we do have a represent. We're not excited by a nation. Due to the, if you look at the front elevation there, you'll see the kind of capping over the front walkway that does trigger a front yard setback issue solely for that front of stoop. We do have two existing curb cuts. We do front on two streets, both river and also salaris road. So there is a pre-existing curb cut to the front left of the structure and a pre-existing curb cut to the back. We are on River Street. There is no on street parking on our facing on that side. We are not removing any public parking in the favor of privatizing parking. There are existing curb cuts. So our cited violations for the proposal of a two family structure kind of townhouse left townhouse right as a front yard setback issue. A side yard for the proximity of the proposed existing driveway to the left lot line. If there was an existing driveway servicing the existing curb cut, it would effectively be a pre-existing non-conformity. And then we have a rear yard insufficiency for the rear bulkheads and the rear decking. But again, the proposal is for a two family and a two family 5,000 sub district, which we have requisite amount of land and useable open square footage. Any other questions from the board? Is there a reason the parking set up like that with the two curb cuts? We are merely taking advantage of pre-existing curb cuts. So we did not seek them. We did not install them originally. They've been pre-existing for a time. How wide is the more bottom parking configuration? Because it looks like there's more paving that is really needed, unless I mean, it matches from a new verbility too. So you would think to your point, I think the additional paving in front of the structure might let itself to front yard parking. I think that the owner would be willing to sacrifice that in full disclosure. My current client bought this product kind of mid-stream in late last year. It's where we're really stepping into pre-existing plans for refuse letter dated and issued in January. So I think the client is willing to make some sacrifices if that's a matter of making that front yard area permeable or striking it. I think that that would be reasonable. Other questions from the board? And the public testimony? Yes, Madam Chair and members of the Boulevard. Good morning. My name is Leslie Graham with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. ONS hosted in a butters meeting for the applicant on February 21st. There were some concerns raised by director butters regarding previous upkeep of the demolition project. But the applicant did respond making clear that that was prior to his purchase. So that seemed to address and I guess made everyone in the meeting happy. Moving forward, they are working on getting the high partner neighborhood associations upcoming agenda to present to their group. So that date is depending the group is aware and tapped into this conversation that they just hasn't been scheduled yet. But we are in conversations that this time our office would like to defer to the chairwoman's judgment. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Hearing none, they have a motion. Motion to approve with BPA design or. Is that so? I just want to take no attention to elimination of any possibility of front yard parking. Mr Collins, would you like to use? I have a hand. Okay, is there a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Langham? Yes. Mr. Eakin? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Mr. Pannato? Yes. Ms. Ruelo? Yes. Chair votes. Yes. The motion carries. Thank you, Madam Chair. Members, the board. Next, we have case for you. One slide. Nine, seven, seven, five. The address is 30 pondwood street. If the applicant can't handle a representative's present, will they explain to board with? Hello, my name is Mr. Pot. I represent in the corner, for the ironwood in high part. So we are here to seek a relief for this project under section 69. We have execs square foot ratio, front end insufficiency, side yard insufficiency, and the rear yard insufficiency. This originally is a single family, with almost half of a story. There is some bedrooms on the 16th part of the building already. And what we are seeking to do is to actually increase the square footage in the second floor by just lifting up the roof a little bit. And then creating a little deck at the back. So when you look at the site plan, the only thing that we have here is we need a thing about 30 feet. And if we put a deck of eight feet, then we are shy of three feet. So we need a relief from there. As for the side food sites of the building and front, these are pre-existing conditions that this proposed project is not going to affect it in any way. The other thing is the height limitations. We have looked into the design area, and we have decided not to exceed any of the buildings over there. I think this project is in line with the neighborhood area that we are proposing to have this building done. If there are other history of the building, I think my client will be the first person to be able to explain some of the history. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Yes, ma'am. Oh, I'm just you. I'm sorry. Oh, okay. Sorry. Questions from the board? Right now. Hearing none may have public testimony. I. I. I. I want to say you want. Is what's it? Sustyl is there someone from onus? Yes, I'm here. Okay. Okay. Yes, sorry about that. Good morning, Madam Chair and members of the board. I'm Sustyl Graham with the man's office in the neighborhood services. All of my men as hosted on a butters meeting for the applicant are March 20th. They met with the East River neighborhood association on April 8th of 2024, who are in support at this time. Our office would like to defer to the chairman's judgment. Thank you. Okay. Colin, on 617-364, you've been muted. Can you state your name and address and let us know if you're in support opposition? Hello? We can't hear you. I'm sorry. I had my hand up for the last hearing on River Street. I wasn't recognized. I didn't know my hand was still rough, but I wasn't recognized. Okay. Unfortunately, we've moved on to 30-I would. I'm looking at my hand up and then I read someone's answer. I was looking at people saying that after we called it in. But is anyone on the 1909 University? Are you looking to give testimony for this proposal? The Center for Concept Review. Hi. It was the same case for me as well. I raised my hand for the 1905 River Street as well. And I have a few neighbors who are on the call listening in. A bunch of us who are neighbors of that proposed plan have been on this call waiting to be able to say something. And now everybody is saying, unfortunately, that has passed. But we were here at the time. So I need to know how we can revisit that, who we need to go to, because we are residents of this area. My specific property, along as my neighbor, as well as my neighbor, who was on this call as well. We live right next to our 1909. So our voices do need to be heard. I'm going to ask Samantha, if what the protocol would be. Madam Chair. The board is not in violation of the open meeting law. In terms of advice, I think that is up to you in the board. But we are in the middle of another case at this time. And our office can be in touch with the applicants following the hearing as we are currently in the live hearing. Okay. Thank you. So I think please follow up with the the ZBA staff and proceed with 30 crime. And then maybe I'll bring you to the home. Do you have a question? Because we're taking tests. I just wanted to just add to my contracture and a little bit on the fact that it's already a single family. It's going to remain a single family. It's a story and a half property. And we're basically doing better. And the second level we're not building out to the left or the right or the front. We're just building it deck, which is far away from property line. And I've gotten a lot of letters of support. And they are actually happy because this property has been abandoned. And even squatters were living in it. So we're just looking for your approval. Okay. Thank you. Any other public testimony? Right. Do not see any raise hands at the moment. I want to give my second or two. But those always hands. Okay. With that may have a motion. I'll make a motion to approve. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Stombridge. Yes. Mr. Lino. Yes. Mr. Eiken. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Panado. Yes. Mr. Lino. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. The motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Next. Next. Next we have case of B.O.A. 158. 3137. The address of 1481 Centra Street. If the applicant and or their representative's president. Will they please his president board? Yes. Mr. Stombridge. Good morning. Madam Chair, I'm Mr. LeBord, Attorney Derek Small. I'm a business-adjusted 51-Dops and Low. And with me today is Mr. Ressortow, who is the owner of the pre-school and the property. Madam Chair, today we're here to, to change the little occupancy from a two-family dwelling to a two-family dwelling with a daycare and pre-school. Here is the zoning subject. This is one F6000. Our lot size is 11,672 B. Our violation is the daycare area is a conditional use. So we are seeking conditional use permit. And it's a change in the non-conforming use simply because there's a one-up zone and it's existing two-family dwelling. Again, a sustained service school, pre-school students, about 16 to 18 students. I was an operationer from 830 to 530. And that's it. We can open it up to questions. Pretty straightforward. Just change the occupancy to include a pre-school and daycare. Thank you. Any questions from the board? I'm sorry. We do have some new pre-school. Open 138 has all the same pre-school. Who's 535? I'm sorry. Is this related to the case? Not at all. Mr. Langham, can you mute yourself? Yes, I did. Okay. Any questions from the board? Hearing none may have public testimony. Madam Chair, members of the board, Sigi Jotson, the mayor's office of neighborhood and services. This proponent completed an ONS community process, which consisted of in a butter's meeting and appearing before. West Rocksbury, neighborhood council, WRNC voted to support this proposal. And with that, we defer to the judgment of the board. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, Madam Chair, I have no ways to hear it at the moment. Okay. May I have a motion? I'll make a motion to approve. Is there a second? I just want to point out that this BPD suggested no building code relief as part of the approval. I don't know if you're interested in that. Thank you, Madam Chair. I don't think we can't offer, can we even offer building code relief? I wasn't requested. I'm not sure the comment. No, we don't need any. Yeah. Okay, let's just want to point it out. Thanks. Okay. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Snubbridge? Yes. Mr. Langham? Yes. Mr. Aiken? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Ms. Benado? Yes. Ms. Ruelo? Yes. Chair Rose, yes. The motion carries. Thank you, Madam Chair. I'm Mr. Board of the Day. The next two are containing cases. No, please. Excuse me. First, we have case B.O.A. 152-1952. And the address is 259-259-RF Market Street. Along with that, we have case B.O.A. 152-1950. The address is 257-RF Market Street. These cases will need to be deferred to the applicant and what they represent as present in the big edge. Yes. Good morning, Mr. Secretary Madam Chair and members of the board, Attorney Maddacle with Pletcher Tilton, with the Business Address of 100 Franklin Street. I do apologize. I have some technical difficulties during the first call for deferrals, but as Mr. Secretary noted, we do need a deferral and we're requesting one at this time to allow the project to be re-abitized, as the original notice did not include all the proper violations. In discussions with the ZBA staff, I believe the hope was to have it re-abitized for June 25th. If that please the board. So at this time we're officially requesting a deferral. Thank you. I will. Okay. Samantha? Yes, that's correct, Madam Chair. The date is June 25th. Okay. We have a motion. Motion is a deferred and so June 25th. That's second. Second. Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Mr. Eakin. Yes. Mr. Commons. Yes. Mr. Fanado. Yes. As we will. Yes. Chair votes yes. The motion carries. Thank you. Okay. With that it looks like we're on break until 11th. Recording stopped. The motion is finished. The motion is finished. The motion is finished. The motion is finished. The motion is finished. The motion is finished. The motion is finished. The motion is finished. The motion is finished. The motion is finished. The motion is finished. The motion is finished. The motion is finished. The motion is finished. The motion is finished. The motion is finished. The motion is finished. The motion is finished. The motion is finished. The motion is finished. The motion is finished. The motion is finished. The motion is finished. The motion is finished. The motion is finished. The motion is finished. The motion is finished.