 you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you These are the and those are the If not, may I have a motion to grant the extensions as requested? Motion to grant the extensions as requested. May I have a second? I may. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. As we will. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Ms. Pinato. Yes. Chair votes, yes. Motion carries. Next, we have the boy final, Armored to Case scheduled to 930. That would be case, that in this case, be away, 1, 2, 1, 0, 1, 7, 5, with the address of 37 Pearl Street. Is the applicant and on the representative of President, will they plead the points of a boy? Yes. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Madam Chair, members of the attorney Ryan Spitz, with that, was a Marancy business address of 168 H Street, First, Lorsalt Boston. We're here today specifically asking for the board to remove a provisional on an approval that was approved by the same board on May 9, 2023. There was a provisional specifically that was added in this approval, stating to pay attention to reducing parking to provide more open space. Since that point in time, we have entered into the BPDA design review process, the players did review and paid specific attention to reducing parking, but has decided not to reduce parking and to provide more open space as there was no open space violation. They felt that it was sufficient amount of open space being provided with this proposal. And due to that, the players, as requested us to go back in front of the board to specifically have that provisional removed since that it has completed design review, and they do have a stamp set of drawings. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? Karen Nunn, is there a motion? Almost a total of three of them removed and the provisional, I guess. Is that how it would be worth? May I ask the I guess? Yes, please. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Mr. Langham? Yes, ma'am. Is we well? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Ms. Connottom? Yes. Chair votes yes. Mr. Motion carries. Thank you. Next, we will move on to the recommendations from the recent self-committee meeting of August 27th. I will read the right, I will read the case and the address and the outcome of the vote. First, we have case BLA, 160, 6982, but the address of 147 was A Street. Motion was approved. Case BLA 161 8828, the address of 7228 to 7248, Sharman Avenue. The case was approved. Case BLA 1607331 with the address of 34 Olmsted Street. The case was approved. Case BLA 1609099 with the address of 376 to 382 Warren Street. Case was approved. Case BLA 157 5999 with the address of 165 Rivers Street. The case was approved. Case BLA 161 4614 with the address of 77th comments highway was approved. Case BLA 157 6555 with the address of 33 Jackson Road was approved. Case BLA 167 5521 with the address of 26 to 28 Raymond Street was approved. And those were all the cases from the self-committee. May I have a motion? Motion to approve the self-committee to the sentence. Thank you. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Panado. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. The motion carries. The motion is approved. The motion is approved. The motion is approved. The motion is approved. The motion is approved. The motion is approved. The motion is approved. The motion is approved. The motion is approved. The motion is approved. The motion is approved. The motion is approved. The motion is approved. The motion is approved. The motion is approved. The motion is approved. The motion is approved. The motion is approved. The motion is approved. The motion is approved. The motion is approved. The motion is approved. The motion is approved. The motion is approved. The motion is approved. I would be pleased if the motion is approved. Please let me just tell you something. They're all the ürvsnots. I wish that we can...ock to be seated. Powdered balls Ms. 신ieu asks us what our joint fee is right now. The motion isn't IPDD. Those billments are made in the process. Does that know that the motion is a bit important? Last but not least is the motion. Okay. The motion is approved. The motion is approved. Okay.ragon. Then it's done. I'll go ahead and暫 here. First we have case at B.O.A. 161-1722 with the address of 17 Lyndon Street. It's the applicant and nor their representative's president. Would they please explain to the board? Yes, thank you, Mr. Spemberg. My name is George Marancy. I'm an attorney business address at 350 West Broadway in South Boston. I represent city royalty in this madamat and chair members. This is an application to replace and exist in three family growing at 17 Lyndon Street in Austin with a new five-story building to contain 14 apartment units, including one studio unit, two two bedroom units, and 11 three bedroom units. There would be six Austrian parking spaces, but motor vehicles and secure storage for 20 bicycles. The site is located within a 3F-4,000-zone and sub-district. Kingdom Martinez and Palson Design and Project Architect is here today and we'll take you forward to a brief design presentation when I conclude. This site is approximately 6,490 square feet in the zone as I mentioned, 3F-4,000. In terms of as-built neighborhood art text, our surrounding area is characterized by various housing types, including multi-family apartment buildings and as the planning department recommendation notes, several approved article 85x totaling over 900 units. In other words, it is much denser than a three-family zoning sub-district would indicate. All of this leading the planning departments to conclude a conclusion that we agree with that proposed multi-family use of this location is opiate and that this area is indeed voiced for planning and zoning reform in order to allow denser future development with respect to the zone-related being requested of variances necessary or to the number of dwelling units proposed on the lot. Again, the planning recommendation notes that present large-sized requirements is out-of-date and inconsistent with the city's need to add housing units. Three of the violations cited to either insufficient Austrian parking or to the design of the proposed Austrian parking facilities. The spaces here are proposed as contact spaces, seven and a half feet by 18 feet. Given the site's access to over-transit notes and the trend certainly among the number of registers in the city, it will shoot by the vehicle ownership. It is believed that the six contact parking spaces would adequately serve building and its residents. Relief is required for setbacks of usable open space and on these issues once again, on these issues, the planning recommendation does diverge from its otherwise positive endorsement of the proposed set. With respect to the front setback, however, we all are exactly that we could not provide and exist in building alignment plan for the block. It is a fact that the modal front setback here is zero that is set by the row of buildings from one Indian street to 15 Indian street. The proposed setback here is three feet from the fine log line in the model allows for a landscape area under the building. Additionally, my clients have owned the current building for some time and are aware that open area that other lots of this neighborhood have created problems with programs and are accumulating trash in the neighborhood. My clients of course understand the concerns about open space and perhaps even excess parking and will be able to work and design review on these issues more than the board to see fit who approve this, which leads me finally before turning presentation over to Daniel Martinez, that by forwards conclusion, we fully agree with the planning, primary recommendation and concur in its findings on the reasonfulness of the size of the project and the requested zoning relief. But rather than further project out and start over, we believe in the ability to work to design review to approve this project, given the fact that it meets so many of the goals of creating new quality housing in the city. Finally, since this is a project that is subject to city's IDP policy, my clients have committed in writing to the planning department to three IDP units representing just over 21% of affordability consisting of one two bedroom unit and two three bedroom units. Without a light to turn on the presentation over to Daniel Martinez, it's also designed to take the board briefly to through the project site in the building. Daniel. For a more on the quick question, the three IDP units, what level of affordability? These are rentals. So they, I assume they would be 70% I was in touch with Ryan Frania, the planning department actually, by email this morning, he replied to me, as excited about the proposed units, just indicated to me that if this were approved, we would follow up with an affordable rental housing restrictions agreement with the mayor's office of absent. Thank you. Thank you, George. Hi, everyone. Members of the board, members of the public, my name is Daniel Martinez from KDI, call for the sign. Find, may I share my screen? I don't, screen share, so if you submitted something, please walk us through what was submitted. Oh, okay, no problems. I can walk you through this. We can actually start at the site when the architectural site when please. If you don't please numbering that always helps. Oh, I am sorry. Yes, if we consume in through the proposed one. So I just want to walk everyone briefly. We have a trash enclosure next to the driveway, part of the way we're buffering the parking spaces or by using hedge, hedge shrubs around the subparimeter. If you can see on the building outline, where we have our columns, we actually have to outbound the columns towards the last site and we're actually covering that with a little bit of cornage. And then if we can walk to the elevations. So basically what we did here to split up the massing, we have the brick building. We wanted to be respectful of the main hood context and the townhouse is there next to us. So we implemented a brick facade that is highly decorated. We also noticed that if we go down to the rendering, one more page. We also noticed that the townhouse which next to us have very distinct round bay element and part of the way we try to again be respectful of the context. Let's do incorporate that round bay element from the side of our building, switching the submaterials to again break up the massing. We also incorporate a step arched and arch windows to again kind of follow the same language through the sign. We've also stepped back the step floor to be respectful of the massing of the current massing on the street and also not being pulsing as much for the building. We've crowded the sub-side with line stone accents to provide warmth. Same thing with the entry. We've provided warm material, warm clining materials to the entry to provide still care for the occupants. For the other side materials. Since we have a curve, those will probably be metal triding along with either vinyl or metal triding as well for the platform. If we go to the back of the building and the elevation, yep, and if we go a little bit up one more page to the elevations, please. On the back of the building, we split it up with consistent base that are proportional to size of the buildings around the neighborhood. That's how we split up the massing towards the rear. Again, as George mentioned, there's 14 units. We have six surface parking spaces that we covered. We covered the perimeter with a landscape buffer. And again, we're being respectful of any of the overhead with our design. That's pretty much what I had to present in terms of materials and design. I know you guys are in a tight schedule. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? Can you just address your decisions regarding open space? It appears that you've taken this site and really just, I think, you're providing a tool of 675 square feet of open space as she primarily threw like a deck. And you've taken a rear yard setback requirement of 30 feet and provided something like 8 feet. Just walk us through your thinking around your approach to open space. Yes, Ms. Vignano. Those numbers are accurate. The thought was that we wanted to maximize the amount of housing on the site. It's a great occasion. The amount of open space I acknowledge is a concern in the comments recommendation. My clients, as I say, would be happy to work on this, whether it's even a reduction in the depth of the building to increase open space. But I think that it was so much care to craft a project that is otherwise, I think as noted in the recommendation, very beneficial for the neighborhood. And we could get the recommendation. Sometimes we would take that information and defer and rework the building. But we thought that in the light of the very many positives of this project that a better course of action here would be, this would be approved to commit to working with the planning department, as we, of course, would be required to on a blessing the issue of open space around the building. And at the decision one, they would increase that, reducing the building mass and my clients would certainly be open to it. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Just a follow-up to Ms. Pinal's question. So would you be open to, instead of reducing the building size to reduce the parking units? Because you have six at this moment. If you have less parking, maybe those parking units could be for handicapped. And you can create a patio or a convenience plate for the residents. I think I agree with me. We spin out of that open space is the biggest concern. You cannot at the moment without no parks, like many blocks around. So whether you think about that was your liberty. Absolutely, Mr. Borancia and my clients specifically mentioned that to me when we were discussing this at yours in my recommendation, we have an existing violation for insufficient off-street parking. So reducing, I dare say, eliminating parking since this is a rental building. We would not create any new zoning violation. And perhaps something along those lines along with even taking off the corner of the building to provide a landscape or green space area in the rear rather than some of those parking spaces who had accomplished, you know, the sort of the missing objective noted in the planning recommendation of this building having some amount of actual outdoor open space. I would certainly be able to do that. Thank you. Thank you. So it sounds like a design review with special attention to open space is a possibility. That's any other questions from the board? Here none. Can I have public testimony? Yes. I have chair members of the board. I'm honored to be with the Mayor of the Office of Neighborhood Services. It's time the Mayor's Office could defer to the judgment of this board. Some background information in the community process. I own an associate in a butterge meeting on January 6th of 2024. There was one butterge present with questions regarding the current residents of the structure. The applicant was able to answer those questions. The proponent then went on to meet with the Austin Civic Association, which ultimately voted to support this proposal with provisos. With their support contingent on no building co-relief being granted. And that provisor that no none of the units be granted out to undergrash with tenants. That information before the board this time. Thank you. Thank you. My name is Elizabeth. Thank you, Madame Ambassador. Madame Chair members of the board. This is the final for us to represent in the carpenters senior. We'd like to go on and record and support on this break. Okay, Madame Chair, I have no decision raised at the moment. Thank you. With that, we have a motion. All right, I'll try. I'm happy for any additions. I'll make a motion to approve with the provisor for a BPD design review with special attention to an increase in open space through either a reduction in building massing and or reduction in parking on site. Anything else my colleagues want to add to that? I think I've taken out for the proponent to execute a house neck agreement with the mayor office of House you for the three IDP units that they are proposing at 70% AMI or below. Why don't we keep it at 21% because I have a feeling with the reduction in massing. That number might change. So how about the provisor saying they maintain a 21% IDP percentage at 70% AMI? It's good. I'm trying to wing it. Mr. Hampton, we're happy to hear from you. Mr. Hampton, no. Mr. Nado. I'm going to do it now. Everyone madam chair, I'm board Jeff Hampton planning department. My question to the board is to what extent does the planning department have authority for design review on this? I understand the request for open space reduction parking but also Ms. Valencia the Mr. Valencia that keep the affordable units. This is why we recommended what we did. Because our urban design department is going to come back. See these provisors in the decision and not know what to do or to what extent they can do it. So reducing the building does that reduce the number of units taking out the parking increase in the open space making the building smaller. This could be a significant change that a lot of times the urban design department doesn't want to do because that's why we make these recommendations. If the proponent is agreeable to these changes, then they should have done them in the first place. So I just want to get some direction from the board on how much design review you are going to authorize to do because this could be significant changes. It's a Mr. Valencia's point. It could and you too, Ms. Pannauto, it could reduce the affordable units. So they're on the record of saying they're going to be three, but if we reduce it, you know, what does that mean? I mean, I'm sure. And I will state that, you know, living in the street is right for this kind of project. But we think it's too big. And usually you know, design review can help with smaller things, but this could be a massive change. And I'm not really sure urban design is going to take this on and have it be their project instead of city of realities. Yeah, I mean, I, I am sympathetic to that. I mean, I do think this is a redesign that the building is is very large for this site. They've chosen to basically build on the entire site and put a very small landscaping buffer around the site and then fill the entire site with the building and parking. And we are saying we don't really agree with that approach. And neither does the planning department. And so I agree. This is not a design review and tinker around the edges. This is like we're not happy with this approach. Do I hear a different motion? I'm motion to deny without progress and Mr. Marienci. The, I think you just need to look at the BPD is recommendation and put, you know, put, put, put for four or get. Get a decent project back to them so that they can go to design review. It is a good project. It's just not quite there yet. I do respect before this is second on emotion. I hate to make it active in the boards on conversation. But I don't think I would probably sway enough members to say that we have a clear direction here. It's where really time I was reducing the depth of the building. The reason why it hasn't been done is because I think as the board knows these recommendations. Literally are here. She's three days before the hearing so we have no engagement with the planning department. Parts just seeing a recommendation. For example, on Friday. If that is the will of the board is again, I believe we have clear direction here reducing the building to create open space. If that does reduce the number of units of a client to maintain a 21% ID. I would just ask that if there are an ultimate motion that it simply be funded before which I would have requested if I thought that the board in fact wanted to see new plans before moving this forward. Sorry for interjecting. I second that I think he chose to propose a project that was extremely dense and ignored the existing zoning and put forth a project with a lot of violations. So I would second that motion. Seconding the deal will work. Okay. All right. Yes. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yeah. Just to clarify. Should we choose a board member to make the motion? I hear that the motion was made by the motion. No, the motion comes to be the motion. Okay. I'm sorry. Yes. Okay. Thank you. Mr. Wiener. Yes. Ms. Wiener. Yes. I'd also add if the applicant were to come back. I didn't encourage them to look at sort of the pedestrian experience of this site. Something about where the trash is located in the walkway. It just seems very auto-centric. But I'll just add that and that I also agree with my colleagues comments on the mass thing. Okay. Mr. Collins. Yes. Ms. Benado. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. The motion carries. Thank you. Thank you very much. Next. Next. We'll move on to case B.O.A. 162 7151 with the address of 45 to 29 child park road. This is an article eight. And this is the applicant and the representative representative present. Okay. Please explain for the board. Thank you. Ms. Secretary. Thank you. Madam Chair. Members of the board. Attorney Jeff Trego with Trego and Tiscano with the business address 11 Beacon Street. And on behalf of the applicant and client, Nora LLC. And I also have Dennis Greenwood who's from Susa Design, the architect who you'll hear from at a few minutes. This particular project, as was mentioned, went through the article eight large project review process was approved by that BPD. Board planning board back in November of 2023. The design and rendering that you're looking at here is the proposed project. And that proposal is to raise the existing former commercial structure and to erect 121 unit apartment complex with below grade parking on site for 90 one vehicles. And the possible also be combined of comprised of four different parcels with a total area of for development of 125,300 17 gross. If we could go to the next slide, please, Madam Ambassador. This particular site and these are the existing conditions was a former commercial site. It was a former headquarters for the pizza rear Regina restaurant headquarters. And that tenant left a number of years ago in the building had been sitting idle for years. And as you can see in this particular area, there is a lot of commercial use. This area is rise of Charles Park Road and then the rear governor street in the West Rocksbury neighborhood in the back is of a home depot. There's a large urban wild how island pond directly across from the proposed project site. As you start to look in the back, there's a new development in the rare. There's a townhouse development to the right of us. So there's a number of BPD, approved and zoning board approved projects over the last few years. And this particular area, making it a minimal for new residential housing, which is what my client had put forward and which was approved at the BPD. Next slide, please. This particular sub district is a community commercial sub district and a lot size combined is 46,656. This right here is the existing conditions. You can see a lot of hot top and the older commercial building that was there. We actually created as part of this project a number of areas of usable open space, not only green space and a promenade down the middle, which breaks up the two buildings, but also a lot of deck space and communal decks on the top of the building. The useable open space of this project is 19,654 square feet. This project also has a high affordability rate at 16.5%. IEP units and those AMIs vary from 30 to 100. So there would be 20 IDP units on site for this project. There would be one at 30% AMI, one at 40, three at 55 at 60, six at 70 and four at 100. Which in total would be 16.5% for the project. We also very close walking distance to Millenium Park right up the road and we also committed this progress project $100,000 to that park as well. If you could stay in this slide, Adam and Basin, right? So in terms of unit composition, we have 69 one bedroom units with an average size of 672 square feet, 37 and two bed units with an average size of 883. So we really tried to have a mix of housing. The site as I had mentioned, the sat vacant, so there's no displacement. There hasn't been a commercial tent there for a number of years for this particular site. We've been through the full article meeting process and extensive community process at multiple I.A.G meetings and public meetings to get to the art. Here we are today, which included opening up this area to have that prominent down the middle of the green space. You can also see that the top floors recessed and we were able to create those open space. It is on the top floor as well. The particular zoning district because it is in a community commercial district is a bit black with the zoning regulations needed. And so the areas that we were required to get relief was the use and MFR multifamily residential is conditional in a community commercial area. So we are seeing a variance on the FAR for this particular district is about 2.0 at 2.69. And then in terms of building height, the top floor storage is in 45 feet and you can see sort of the passing of the buildings to the right. We decided to renovate it to 3.5 feet and 4 feet and the railing are proposing 56 feet, 6 inches. But we did as part of this proposal and working. We can't be recessed that top floor for the right building, which will end up that area in terms of passing. And we also have a dedicated bike room and number of bed space jeans, the ground level dedicated bike blue bike station outside which you can see in this picture alone in a commitment to create street trees and white sidewalks on this particular area. At this time, just going to briefly turn it over to Dennis Greenwood, who is the architect of the project. Thank you, Jeff. So my name is Dennis Greenwood. I'm a Suza design architect. As Jeff mentioned, there's a number of items that we made sure to include in the project throughout the process here. There's a large focus on outdoor space and creating a linkage between that Charles River, kind of walk away in Kyle Island pond up to Millennium Park, which is up to the north. So we did create that large kind of central pedestrian plaza. That's kind of a passive recreation space as well as a landscape zone between these two structures right in front of that. You see a little pull off area that's the kind of quick drop off and pick up zone. We did widening the sidewalks around the entire room of the site. There were three feet along Gardner Street in portions of Charles Park Road. We've increased that to seven feet and created just a number of outdoor spaces. We think service of connection for the building to kind of the site context. Those fourth floor roof decks are amenity to the residents and have views over Charles Park Road in the Charles River itself. And then we have that courtyard that's actually open to the public as well. What we're doing is we're utilizing balding materials with rent, you can aluminum composite metal panel siding as well as e-pay decking and we're to make sure that we're creating a quality product. We're utilizing kind of base between 12 and 24 feet to break down the massing of the building and make sure it's contextual with a residential scale and seeing this building is kind of a transitional piece between the more residential elements to the east and more commercial development that's a past the corner as Jeff mentioned past that point on the lust of the screen. Next slide please. Yeah, you can. And so here's an image of just kind of, yep, either one's fine. Here's an image of the fact that four yard the linkage between Charles Park Road and Gardner Street. You can see there are two entries pedestrian entries for the two buildings above above where it below where everything is connected via one parking structure for 91 parking spaces. Next slide. And you can do one more. Okay, and here you can see. Okay, and here you can see a view from Charles Park Road. This is that space between the two buildings. What we did was we looked at a number of different elements, including breaking down the base into that increment I discussed. We also looked at putting balconies on the corners to kind of soften and erode some of the massing of the building. And we had a data met the floor foot line with setbacks at the fifth floor to again kind of create that facial and data met the fourth floor, except the fifth floor back. And with that, I know we're going to take schedule. So if there's any questions, I'd be happy to answer. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Any questions from the board? Any questions from the board? Any questions from the board? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Conor and with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. It's time the mayor is also going to defer to the judgment of this board to about information in the community process. This went through a very lengthy process run by the Boston Planning Development Agency. And we'll take the council and met with them again later during the community process. The west-brother neighborhood council were pleased with the design and welcomed residential development. However, a number of members also raised concerns, which they felt that the building was too tall for the area. It was on character with the neighborhood and that the height would overshadow existing structures nearby. And they expressed concerns where they felt there was enough parking spaces being proposed, feeling that single car out, see remained the primary source of transit in this area, as well as concerns that overflow, parking onto the street might impact ice ring visitors, local businesses and residents. There was also, as I mentioned, concerns about traffic being added to the VFW parkway. Ultimately, the west-brother neighborhood council did not take a vote on this proposal without deferred to the board of this time. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Newman. Two more raised hand here. Second. My mind is going to be OK. Thank you, Madame Ambassador. Madame Chair, members of the board, my name is Coruscore. I'm the member of the center of the government of the city. On behalf of Congress, I am the carpenter of the city of the board and I'm going to ask you to boss and board what I was supposed to do. And I have new additional raise hand at the moment. Mr. Harvey from planning department, want to say anything? Yes, and I just want to verify that this project 100 trials park road did complete the BPDA at the time BPDA process for our 8-E large project. OK, so we have it listed as 45 to 49. Are we talking about the same project? If I can jump in Madame Chair, yes. This was approved. Obviously we have to go through the planning board first when we filed an ISD. The address was changed. So it is the same project. OK, thank you. Any other questions from the board? Hearing none, Madame Emotion. Thank you all for to approve with continued BPDA. Is there a second? Madam Chair. Yes. Could we add the 20 units into the proposal, please? I was planning. Can we confirm the number Mr. Grago? 20 IDP Nits on site, correct? OK, Mr. Collins, do you want to add that to your proposal? Yes, in the applicant revised 20 IDP units to the planning department. Yes, there is the number. Yes, was there a second? Second. OK, Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Linden. Yes. Ms. Ruelo. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Ms. Benado. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. Motion carries. Thank you very much. Next, we have case B.O.A. 159-867. With the address of 750-754A. Adam Street. It's the applicant and or the representative. Please explain to the board. Yes. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Madame Chair, members of the board. Attorney Ryan Spitz, Adams and Marancy Business Address from 68H Street, First floor, South Boston. I'm here on behalf of my client, Maverick Hospitality. The proposal in front of us today is seeking to increase the capacity for an existing restaurant space to add takeout and live entertainment after 10.30. Previously, this restaurant was wholly known as the industry, which did have a takeout license in live entertainment after 10.30 p.m., which was also recently approved by this board on January 10, 2023, except that was for that applicant only. And that's what we're here today along with the increase in capacity. This location was acquired by my client and is currently doing business as Chubs. The operator performed extensive renovations to the interior to improve the functionality, which at that point in time they discovered underutilized space and hence the reasoning for increasing capacity from 151 currently to the new proposed of 180% capacity. The increase in capacity triggered insufficient parking violation as .3 parking spaces are required for each seat within the restaurant. There is no feasible way to provide parking and this type of relief is consistent with the other restaurants within Adams Village. The takeout relief is a conditional use permit in the sub-district, which also triggers an extension of non-conforming use, but does not increase the volume or area of that non-conforming use. The previous restaurant did again, did have the takeout, which was recently approved by this board, but was issued again for that applicant only. Lastly, the live entertainment after 10.30 is a forbidding use in the sub-district, but will not be any different from the previous restaurant's live entertainment license, which again was approved by that board for that applicant only. The operator is proposing live entertainment seven days a week, no more than two acoustic instruments at one time. No DJ at all. I was a cooperation will be from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m. with windows closing if there is live entertainment by 9 p.m. At this point I'm going to turn it over to the board for any questions. Thank you. We're trying to speak to any questions from the board. Hearing none, can I have public testimony? Good morning, Madam Chair and members of the board. My name is Eva Jones. I represent the Mayor of the Neighborhood Services. Regarding 750 Adam Street and Dorchester, our office will defer to the board's judgment on this matter. A community process was conducted for the included or was conducted for on 529, which was lightly attended. The primary feedback from this meeting was noise pollution in a residential area, public intoxication, parking, and increased mass rat issues. Miss H said she could support the proposal on the conditions that the applicant closed the rear door at all times. The windows are closed at 9 p.m. keeping the dumpster closed with no trash in the surrounding area, as well as ensure more trash pickups if needed. And lastly to end the live entertainment by 10 p.m. on weeknights, the applicant agreed with all of the constituents' conditions. Additionally, the proposal was reviewed with the Theater Broke Civic Association, which convened on 617. The Association expressed that they are happy for the applicant but site concerns about raising increased pressure on constituents for parking in the area. Ultimately, the Civic Association voted in support of the proposal and also provided a letter of support. At this time, the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services would like to defer to the board's decision. Thank you for your time and consideration. Thank you. Hello, Madam Chair, members of the board, Liam Remiss from Council for the Stale's Office. Offices like going like they'd support the proposal. Thank you. And we're taking a seat. We have no additional raise hands at the moment. Would that may I have a motion? I make a motion of number 1. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Lignel. Yes. Ms. Wu-Woe. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Ms. Connato. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. Motion carries. Great. Thank you. Next, we have case B.O.A. 159, 89, 370. The address is 2 to 6. Reef. Reef field place. It's the applicant in the order that represents the president. Well, please explain the case to the board. Good morning, Madam Chairwoman. Hello, members of the board. Any guys? You know what I mean? Yes, sir. All right. Before you we have our... Well, my name is Isaiah Thelwell. I'm your partner, Andrew Litch, in an architect. Eric Sacreson. Before you we have our plans for 2 to 6. Reef. Reef. 2 to 6. Reef. Reef. Reef. Reef. Reef. Reef. Reef. Reef. Reef. So essentially proposing a three-story dwelling, a total of seven minutes. One of these units will be designated as a workable. Each unit is two bed, two baths. Unit square footage ranges from about 900 to 11 hunger square feet. In addition to that, we're proposing a total of eight parking spaces. Six of these parking spaces will be surface level. Two of them will be garage. As you guys can see here, we initially went to the neighborhood association. We had a total of 10 parking spaces. It was very clear that green space was most important. And in preserved trees, so we decreased our total parking from 10 to 8. And doing that, we were able to preserve some trees and also turn that area into a flexing green space. I would also note too, at the top of Reef. We're from place in West College. We added up the desks from the sign of sign, just for the desks from the motorists, just increased safety. Travel on that street. As I mentioned, unit layouts, two bed, two baths. Units 2 through 7 have deck, a patio access. Open concept. And as I mentioned, I had to go back on square feet. Also, unit one is our townhouse unit. So that has a private garage at the first level. Two cargo runs at the first level on a time of sleep. This is our roof plan. To note here, we're dedicating portion of our roof to be a green roof. And we have two sections, two zones of the roof, which will be for solar panels. Rocksbury, then it will be a rocksbury, is affected by the urban heat island effect. So one way we can augmentate that is to contribute to the green roof, which is pretty system. You can go to the next slide. And lastly, this is our proposed front-and-side elevations. The materials we, for construction, will be consistent with the context of the neighborhood community. It won't be too much. So with that being said, I'll conclude here. I'll allow space for the board members. We have any questions. Thank you so much. Thank you. Sorry, ma'am. Mr. Stigie, say these would be red tones or homeownership. Home ownership, first sale. Thank you. Questions from the board? Yes, you mentioned that you had providing one affordable unit. That's right. In Camille, what? So it's kind of for sale. I think we have to go through the neighbor office of the mayor's office of neighborhood housing to related details. I'm not sure if jacket knowledge. Okay. Thank you. But you're committed to it. That's correct. Thank you. I have a question. What other questions from the board? May I have public testimony? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor Newman with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. This time, the mayor's office is going to defer to the judgment that's board. Our office hosts and the butter is meeting where there were three of butter's and attendance as you heard from the applicant's representation. There were lots of questions regarding trees being retained on the property and as well as questions regarding the park configuration and potential traffic impacts. Ultimately, our office ended up receiving 12 letters and support from neighbors that lived on Woodville and Moreland Street. The applicant was in contact with the Dudley's Grand Amorhood initiative, which currently express that they don't have any objections, and they do not oppose the projects that do not officially take a stance of support though. But as always, they encourage applicants to commit to using a mix of income restricted units as well as hiring lowly for construction projects. Unaware of any additional concerns. So there's some support at this time and the fact that it defer to the board. Thank you. Thank you. And Madam Chair, I have no latest opinions at the moment. May I have a motion? I'll make a motion to approve with BPDA designer views, special attention to open space. Can you add the provider about the one IDP unit working with Mayor's Office Housing? Yes, you're going to have to add one IDP, you know. Is there a second? Thank you. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Mr. Langel? Yes. Ms. Ruelo? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Mr. Benado? Yes. Chair votes. Yes, the motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. We're number two. Next, we have two companion cases. First is case BOA 162 1504. With the address of 29 Jackson Street, along with that, they have case BOA 162 1505. If the address of 31 Jackson Street is the applicant, they have to represent his presence. Would they please be going to the board? Yes. Thank you, Mr. Stembridge. My name is George Moran. I'm chair members of the board. Good morning. I represent Greg Dunn of in the owner of two connected buildings located at 29 and 31 Jenkins Street. My client is a current and lifelong resident. So Boston was office located five minutes from this location at 339, your Justice Truth. Mr. Dunn and his own, this property since 1999. The proposal here is essential in two identical applications, one for each building, to erect a real addition and a vertical addition, and to change the occupancy of each building, from a three family belonging to a four family wife. The property sit in two different zoning districts, as they straddle, the zoning boundary line between an MFR sub district under Article 68 and an L1 local business district under the base code. The L1 zone building, which is 31 Jackson Street is therefore within the area, a plans help Boston through a Chester Avenue, a new zoning for this planning area, has not yet been codified. The ISD plans examine in recognition of the provisions of Article 12 Section 1 of the code with respect to transition zoning, therefore correctly cited the violations for 31 Jenkins Street by buying Article 68 MFR zoning requirements. In other words, the violations for each property address are essentially the same, despite being located in two different districts. The plans are, as I say, identical for each address and different only to the extent that one is a mirror image of the other. The first sheet is a certified quad plan shown in the site in the existing structures. Both of these buildings are rather small and each one is approximately 1700 square feet in size. The next sheet, which we scroll up, is the proposed site plan, detecting the rear addition to each building, the overall size of which would be approximately 19 feet deep and 20 feet wide for each building. While the addition extends into the rear yard, each unit would benefit from a large rear porch, larger rear porch than it exists now, which would also serve a secondary means of egress for each unit. The rear spiral staircase would extend up to provide access to the roof, always with the purpose of serving mechanical units on the roof, providing maintenance to the roof, and perhaps for access to solar multi-pales. My client has not made a decision on the solar energy auction yet. My client has no intention of seeking a future roof deck and would be happy to agree to a provide zone to enforce that. The existing condition floor plans, which can be seen on sheet EX-1, show that the units are currently a bit over 600 square feet for the second with third floor units, with unit 1 being about 1000 square feet because it is a bilateral unit facing a living space. The proposed rear addition would add about 400 square feet to each unit, as can be seen on the proposed floor plans on sheet A-1. As a result, unit 1 would be a little bit larger than it currently is again by our 400 square feet for the addition and the other two units would each go to about 1000 square feet each. Also being proposed here, as I said, a one-story vertical addition and one unit each building, sheet EX-2 would fix the current three-story building elevations while following sheets A-2 and A-3, show the proposed condition elevations. Both of these buildings would be fully renovated and upgraded with new interior and exterior finish materials, new building systems, new larger windows, and quite important. Each building would of course be provided with a fire suppression system and fire alarm panel, where none exists today. With respect to the requested zoning relief that proposed floor family use is allowed under MFO zoning, there is a rear-set valve violation, but this is necessary to move to modernize and watch where we rather small updated units. There is a site of floor area ratio violation, owned to the vertical addition and the rear addition. The maximum FAR here is 2 all that proposed at ARS, approximately 2.9. Additionally, ARS 68 has a section whereby a violation is created for any addition into a rear yard area, while a 1000-to-mortar square feet. As the planning department's recommendation notes however, both the FAR and the rear addition are assisted with prevailing neighborhood context, and additionally, a reflective of need for as the recommendation puts it for zone reform, it had the mention regulations that reflected the existing public context. This rear addition to a rear yard is a conditional use condition and not a variant standard. It requires very good setback here, it's 15 feet on to the shallow lot exception, while a proposed rear setback with the addition ranges from 11.5, 13.5 feet. The buildings would exceed the maximum zoning height, out of 40 feet by approximately 4 feet, which shows primarily to the fact that each building has a raised foundation. I point out that there are numerous similar four-story buildings in the neighborhood, and of course there's a violation for insufficient off-street parking, as none exists, and then can be provided. But the buildings are 7-minute walk from the interstation on their regular. Finally, I want to point out that the refusal letters reference a roof deck on the buildings, of main roof of the buildings. This is incorrect, as no deck is actually shown on the plans of no deck is or was proposed. Here is a plash form landing, which is built in COVID-19, the spiral stair that is extending up to access the roof. There wasn't concern expressed by elected officials, about a potential roof deck. I find there's no interest in roof decks. It's not like every roof deck is not like the properties, and they're setting a welcome up-to-visor of no future roof decks on these buildings. With that, Madam Chair and members, I'll pause and take any questions that the members may have. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? Yes, I have one small question. Are these going to be Rachel or Oneship? These are currently rent over the sowing, and they may be able to be as rent-to-vis. Thank you. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? Hearing none, can I apologize to the audience? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Conor Newman with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This time the Mayor's Office will defer to the judgment of this board, some back information in the community process, Owen S. Hosen, and butters meeting on February 6th. The board of them went on to reach out and present to the Andrew Square Civic Association, which opted to oppose this proposal, setting concerns related to size, density, and what they feel would be negative impacts of quality of life of the butters. I don't believe we have any butters. We have no letters in support of opposition on file that would defer to the board. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. You don't put more than any Madam Chair, members of the board, I would like to learn a few different Conor's Office. At this time, Conor's Office will like to go on record and support based on a good community process and the proponents will enlist or include a no-roof-deck-proviso. Conor's Office with analogies, concerns, and opposition in the community. Here we respectfully request that the proponent continue to work closely with neighbors and a-bodies on any quality of life issues on my advice during the construction phase and thereafter. Thank you, guys. Thank you. Okay. I'll go to the higher admin, Josh. You're in need to go, Hikara. Can you state your name and address and briefly tell us if you're in support of opposition? We cannot hear you if you are speaking. I want to Josh and try to get back to you. Hi. Good morning. My name is Josh Chidell. I'm a resident of 287 Old Colony Avenue. Jinking Street is the backside of my property. I did submit some written opposition to this. A big issue I had. I was at the Andrews Waiver Civic Association meeting. They were presenting this as not being a particularly large increase in the number of bedrooms in the property, but looking at the plans, they're expanding out the back and then they're having two bathrooms instead of one. And then something that's called an office simply because it doesn't have a closet. But it looks like it could be reconfigured to be made into a second bedroom. And so I felt that this was really a dishonest presentation to the neighborhood association. And that was part of my opposition. Currently there are cars parked behind there. Even right now there's a car parked behind that property, whether that's legal or not. There are people who are using that as parking. So expanding out there, that's going to be even what people are currently using. It's going to be removed. The neighborhood association did propose this Councillor Flynn at that meeting said he would 99% of the time go with the neighborhoods recommendation and apparently this one he did not. But as somebody who lives right across the street from this, I have some issues with how the presentation was done. And I just don't think that it was an honest representation of what they're actually trying to do here. Thank you. And cars. My son, Jake, and I'm actually the owner of the building. And I just can't. Can we hear from a butter and public testimony first and so you can circle back as part of the response? Thank you. I'm going to try again. Are there other raised hands just go. She's having issues. Sorry. Okay. Yeah. The applicant, Mr. Donovan wants to weigh in briefly. Certainly. Thank you, Madam Chair. With respect to the units, the emphasis for this was the fact that as I said, Greg is on this building of these buildings since 1999. It's time for an upgrade. This time for these to be better quality larger units. A lot of people are working from all working remotely these days. Currently, you know, one here does have a study. We're not trying to disguise bedrooms and studies. If that were the case, we would have simply labeled the existing study a bedroom. Greg wanted to provide study or office space for the other units, more living space, two bathrooms these days is not so much a luxury as a necessity in terms of bedroom count. The unit one is a five level two bedroom with a study or office unit two is a one bedroom. And unit three is a two bedroom unit for total of five bedrooms being proposed. You know, one by level. You've got a four bedroom unit unit. Unit two would be a one bedroom unit unit three or one bedroom unit in unit four or one bedroom. So in terms of number of bedrooms, the increase would be from five to seven. And I don't know if Greg has anything to add. I think not. If the board has any questions, it will be happy to respond. Thank you. Are there other questions from the board? Okay, hearing none. Is there a motion? Motion to approve. Is there a second? Yes. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Langem. Yes, ma'am. Ms. Weow. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Ms. Panato. Yes. Chair votes. Yes, the motion carries. Thank you. Good luck. Next we have case B.O.A. 162-5-948. With the address of 115-121 Boston Street. This is also another article 80 case. And I believe in represented by a train of arrest. I'm going to read the report. I'm going to read the report. Okay, goals are great. Indeed representative Biden. A training of arrest. Just a reminder that I will use my self from this. Okay, so we are a six member board in this right. S in Berkeley. In Georgia, ran Sandra's Pilgrimage you. in South Boston. I represent Boston Pinnacle Properties and its principal Adam Barnes. My client is online this morning as he was looking at Shelfon, a college to design the project architect, who will take a board through a concise presentation of the site and building design when I include. This is as was noted by Mr. Stembridge an article, Lady Large Project that was approved by the BVD-8 Board of Directors in April or last year. What is being proposed is the read-adulment of the 33,423 square foot project site comprising four parcels, and currently occupied by a one-two-story commercial building accessory service parking into a new five to six-story mix-duse building to contain 90 new residential compact living units, approximately 8,476 square feet of ground level commercial space, the large parking for 17 motor vehicles, including 41 residential and 16 commercial spaces, and 122 resident bicycle spaces. The project site is within easy walking distance of the MVPAs, Andrew Square Redline Rapid Transnistation, approximately one half mile from the new market to the rail station on the MVPAs Fairmont Line, and is within easy walking distance of the nearby South Bay Center. The surrounding neighborhood context is also well suited to the scale and scope of the proposed project, with the nearby recently built 400th-region Yanko State Way Extension Project, the traditional low-density three to four-story buildings on Boston Street, where this building's height and massing respond and height. Project site is located entirely within a C-C community commercial zoning sub-district in an area where the zoning barriers transition from community commercial at the project site to 3FD 2000 on the opposite side of Boston Street. The Parsky Way and South Bay Center developments are both PDA developments within PDA zones. The mixed-use residential and commercial proposal for the project site would stay good massing and stepped heights to the MVP story building segments where strength in the multi-family residential character of Yanko State Way on that side of the site while providing a natural, partly a transition to the lower density residential characterizing the opposite side of Boston Street. With respect to the requested zoning relief, the project requires a conditional use permit or a proposed juice bar cafe use that will be included as part of the Jim and Fitmas Center, currently programmed for the ground floor of commercial space. The conditional use permit is also required to the proposed multi-family dwelling use in the relevant community commercial zoning sub-district and two variants that are required. One for the project's floor area ratio and one for the proposed six-story maximum building height. Project is also located within the area of post-draft flood resilience overlay district and full compliance with Article 25A, the inclusion of C-Frog on the zoning refusal letter, thus indicates not a new zoning relief in this section, but rather that compliance with all applicable C-Frog requirements need to be met, which they are. The project is of course subject to inclusionary development requirements and fully compliance with the IDP policy with 15, 90 P units represent 16.7% IDP commitment with 180%, 1% at 60% and the remainder at 70% AMR. The additional community benefits will consist of a new 3,585 square foot public pocket pocket in front of the site, various public realm improvements, including 21 new trees within and around the site, a $24,475 vice share contribution, contributions totaling $15,000 to neighborhood tax exempt organization and $50,000 contribution to parks department. An additional and interesting of a benefit being provided by my client is a future easement on this site, being granted to the car wash site that a bus project in the rear, this easement will be instrumental in allowing for a new car wash facility there to accommodate all healing vehicles on its own site, including on the easement area, thus greatly reducing if not eliminating our continuing condition on west-held street and Austin street as vehicles way to enter the car wash. This is a really big community and was very enthusiastic, who received when we presented this attitude in the Connic Civic Association. Without that, I'm sure I realized that the board has other articles, eating matters, and it could be a long day, so I'll turn the presentation over to Will Shalfon, Dick Kalsa, to walk the board briefly through the plans. Thank you, George. Good morning, Madam Chair, and I'm going to put the board into Will Shalfon calls for a sign. Quickly go through this interesting time we could go to the next one. Blind please. So if you were to mention this, it's an assembly of four parcels, currently being used for like commercial fabrication, the stretch of Austin street is rather pedestrian unfriendly and avoidable green space, so one of our goals is to create a much more pedestrian friendly experience along this stretch through the use of new street trees, a larger pedestrian walkway where the curvy is none, as well as the aforementioned pocket park and the corner of the tree are providing to the public to serve as an access point from Boston Street to West Howell and Southgate, Boston, Beamon. As George mentioned, extensive meetings of the neighborhood determined where this driveway should be and then resolve was off Boston Street extension on right hand side of the page. This alleviates a lot of issues that we're referring with the car wash as well as which is a building on an Austin street. Next slide please. Keep going, one more slide. So again, blow-over a garage consisting of an area dedicated to parking for the commercial space, which is intended to be crossfit in the southeast as well as extensive parking for the residential next slide please. Thank you so much. Round floor is mostly made up of the amenities, the commercial space rather as well as residential amenities space, beauty room, electric bike rental, which is available for residents as well as an extensive bicycle room and dog wash station. In the next slide please. One of the comments that we have in working with the BPDA was the massing of a building and they wanted us to try to split this up into two separate buildings connected by a common ground level. The result of this is a really nice and then before the residents, which is an elevated sort of pocket part which can be programmed in a multitude of ways for residents to enjoy the views beyond to Boston as well as existing neighborhood infrastructure on Boston Street. Next slide. We can slide through these, these are just the next two slides, these are the typical upper floors. This door can mention one building is five storage, one is six of the six floor on the right side is solely comprised of the community room and community terrace as well as obviously, the rest functions. Next slide please. So as part of this process, we've tried to step the buildings back from each other as well as the street which property is somewhat of a traditional forest hole from existing green fortified multi-family homes along Boston Street and then the larger hotel and apartment complexes along Yon Partsky Way and then about they pause out so this is sort of meant to bridge that gap again by stepping this down and creating outdoors spaces for all residents from their units we feel this is a nice integration to be existing context of Boston Street. Next slide please. Keep going. And yeah, that's here some good areas just sort of demonstrating how this building steps back from some of the buildings around it. We can see the pocket park in the lower left hand corner how that interacts with the commercial space. And we're very excited about this project and now we'll defer the board for any questions. Thank you. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Hearing none, can I public testimony? Madam Chair, members of the board, we're honored to meet with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. The sound of the Mayor's Office would defer to the judge from this board and propose or whether or be paid led community process involving IEG meetings and public meetings as well. Our office received one letter in support from a butter feeling that this would revitalize this private doorchester. We also received a support letter from the McCormick Civic Association, who were going on this. I would that would defer to the board tonight. Thank you. Hello, Madam Chair, members of the board, we have a meeting with Councillor Fitzsaud's office. Our office would like to go on record and support the proposal. Thank you. Thanks. Minor. Thank you, Madame Ambassador. Madame Chair, members of the board, this is my number, the rest of the department of the senior. As neighbors, I said, a liberal organization, one-of-one record and support of this project. Thank you. Thanks. Okay, I'm done. What? Hi, I'm Watt, the orange junior. I'd like to comment on 1-1-5-1-21 Boston Street. On behalf of Fortress Storage, which is situated on adjacent lot, and has been in operation in this location for nearly 40 years, I'd like to express my strong support for Adam Burns and his teams to build a project. We feel that the proposed project would be a significant improvement to the immediate neighborhood. This project will revitalize the site with a well-designed building that provides much needed housing and improvements to the public realm like complete streets, sidewalks, pocket park, and street trees. Thank you. Thank you, Madame Chair. No additional praise to use at the moment, thank you. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Hearing none, may I have a motion? Motion to approve. May I have a second? Second, please. Mr. Stemberidge. Yeah. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Ms. Wewell. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Thank you. Ms. Benado. Oh, she's recuse, sorry. Mr. Chair, it's yes, the motion carries. Thank you. Thank you. Next, we have case B.O.A. 160854. It's an address of 1271 Boyle Smith Street. It's the applicant's office. Thank you. Thank you. Next, we have case B.O.A. 160854. It's an address of 1271 Boyle Smith Street. It's the applicant's end or their representative's present. Okay, please explain it to the board. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. And my name is Brian Judge with the law firm of course and in stores located at one post office square in Boston. We represent the appellant, friendly enterprises, 1271 Boyle Smith Street LLC, which is an affiliate of St. Mills and Associates. I'm joined by Mike Fitzpatrick, Senior Vice President of Development for St. Mills and Associates. We're here today with us to name a five year extension of the law and standing zoning relief for parking at the property located at 1271 Boyle Smith Street. In the thinway neighborhood, it's commonly known as the Vogue Hotel. The extension will allow the property to continue to be used for paid public parking, accessory parking for the own site restaurant and ancillary off street parking serving uses located on neighboring lots. Prior decisions of the board getting back to at least 2002 have granted this relief. The board was recently granted a five year extension in 2018 and that relief was automatically extended to July 15th, 2025. 2024, excuse me, pursuant to the tolling provisions of the COVID Act. Whether requested zoning relief is the same as it has been historically and is for reduced number of vehicles. Prior decisions have permitted parking for up to 80 vehicles at the site. However, the total parking capacity at the property has recently been reduced by the installation of 10 modular structures modeled after mobile camper trailers if you're familiar with the property located at the back of the site and operated as hotel rooms. So parking at the property is now for up to 35 vehicles instead of historically being the specific relief includes a variance and conditional use permit to allow the parking lot and ancillary parking respectively within the North Boyleston neighborhood shopping and as to stop district of the thinway neighborhood district as well as a conditional use permit for an off street parking facility accessory to restaurant use within the restricted parking over the district. Just by way of background to request the mayor's office of neighborhood services, the home delivered informational fires about to request to all like abouters identified by LMS and also reached up to the Finway Civic Association. The Finway Civic Association indicated they know objections and to our understanding that the board has not received any objections from members of the public. And also with the planning department has recommended approval of the extension. We just we did want to know that it's not applicable to the rest of the day. We just wanted to clarify one note in the agenda. There is a permanent certificate of occupancy for the mobile modular structures with the back of the site, which was issued in 2023. And I think the agenda just incorrectly knows that there is an expired temporary CO. So just wanted to mention that. So for the reasons that fourth in our appeal and discussed today, the appellan respectfully request an additional five year extension of the existing long standing zoning relief. Thank you. Thank you. Questions from the board? Here in the public testimony? Madam Chair, members of the board. So you also with the office of neighborhood services. This petitioner has completed though and as community process, we had them a flyer, the area which solicited no comments or feedback to our office with the informational flyer. They were additionally in communication with the Finway Civic Association who expressed no concerns with the proposal. With that background, we defer to the judgment of the board. Thank you. I have no way of saying that. Thank you. Without me having motion. I'm not sure I make a motion to help with it. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Lengham. Yes. Mr. Ruiro. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Panato. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. The motion carries. Thank you. Thank you. Next, we have case B.O.A. 1627184. The address of 39 stand on street. Also an auto-coating case. If the applicant and the representative president, please explain the point. Thank you very much. Can everyone hear me? Yes, sir. Madam Chair, members of the board, I'm Don Wies with the Boston-based law firm of Daintorping. Our address is at 175 Federal Street, downtown Boston. My co-presenter this morning is going to be hearing Wheeler with JCJ architecture. They're offices over in South Boston. Together, we represent a venture between Boston-based developer and owner, H.N. Goren, and the hotel owner and operator masterworks development. This project was proposed in 2019 as a bi-right project. It was designed before we compliant with the park of 48 Stewart Street zoning, which is a new high rise district. The bridge dates to 2016 at the edge of back bay, the number of towers in area here. And we had proposed a hotel approximately 300 rooms. Although the zoning height is 356 feet, the hotel project is proposing to be lower than that height at 290 feet. And as I mentioned originally, this was the polyzone compliant project. Approval was delayed significantly. The site contains a small brick stable's building. There were extensive proceeds before the Landmarks Commission involving that building. At the end of the day, the proponent agreed to retain that building. And our design teams come up with very clever, innovative solution for integrating historic tables into a modern, much more sleek hotel tower. Also, in that, stable's building will be a ground level restaurant, which we see as being a significant benefit for the neighborhood. The project, as I mentioned, was initially proposed in 2019. It was approved in July of last year by the BVA as project development then began taking place. It was clear that some minor changes needed to be made to the approved project. That's why we're here today. Specifically, the building code had changed in the interim four years that the project was in permitting. And there was some additional fire safety measures that required to be integrated into the building that changed the floor layout a bit. We also got feedback from restaurant consultants. And we have a goal of making this up a really lovely, nice, high quality destination restaurant here. So, one more backup house space. And the hotel, that the one a little bit more many space, all this led us to need just a little bit more force based than we had. We didn't want to increase the height of the building. And so what our architects came up with was a clever approach that would allow us to insert one additional floor within the existing building envelope. The building is getting no taller. It's like getting wider at the street level. It's not getting any deeper. It will be the exact same building for all intents and purposes to the outside world. But we're here before the board today to requesting recent FAR from 17.5 to 19.0. I should also mention that we're within groundwater conservation, overly distraught who submitted all the appropriate backup material for that. The project as it stands today is a kite compliant project to a 90 feet. We're seeking an FAR of 19.0. There was no parking at this site, but within a five minute walk or 6,700 public park space. It could be a BGD or a comfortable parking is covered. We asked the presentation over the year. We learned I want to emphasize this project was proposed in 2019 as a 300-meter hotel. It remains a 300-meter hotel. We are adding really essentially invisible back of house, administrative types, space, the building, swirping one more floor into the existing building envelope. We don't believe it would be any impacts on the surrounding neighborhood or in fact any perceptible changes whatsoever. So with that lead in, let me turn the presentation over to our design team lead Eric Will. There we go. Thank you very much. I think John gave a very solid overview of our request and what we're looking for today as far as the metrics and changes to the project. We've been briefly run through the design evolution, which is a slide that was the site showing where the building is today. We'll just go to the next couple slides please. This slide shows again the approved project at 39 Standhope Street, which has not changed and it's building hydro massing since the BPD or approval vote last year. Again, as the term the least mentioned, we did have some zoning changes and code changes. Evolution of the energy code, the plumbing code, which requires some more spaces to be reconfigured within the building, which required us to shuffle things around and add more FAR or footage of usable script footage to the building. If we will go to the next slide, please. We did this in a way where we did not change the massing size, volume, etc. of the approved envelope. The building on the left is then the building on the right of the side by side comparisons of the approved design on the left, but the modified design on the right going from 22 to 23 stories. No perceptible changes in the design, the massing, we did run this all through the Oracle AD NPC process and that with the BPD and their design review staff, which had no comments. Now, going to the next slide, please. Here is the side elevation. Again, showing no change to the architecture or the treatment of its side on the left, which is the approved design and the right, which is the current today proposed design with the additional floor. In the last slide, which is the next slide, showing in comparison of the change again, that is really unperceptible by the naked eye, but we had previously, is we looked to do a project which had significant thought of thought like four, the rate and type of coach eldest was going to be. So we had 11 foot floor floor height providing our client with about 9 foot six ceilings in their guest rooms and public spaces. We were able to find a way to reduce with our clients input, reduce the floor floor height to 8 foot 11 to 9 foot ceilings within the guest rooms. We do six inches out of every occupier guest room floor changing the floor floor height from 10 to 10 foot six, which is where we pick up the additional floor overall throughout the building. The public spaces, the 24 foot that you see there and then the base building, the rehab carat house, none of those floor floor heights change. So we're providing the same public and any public design and public spaces that were in the approved design. The change is really are limited to the guest room floor heights going from 11 foot to 10 foot six. With that, I turn it back over to the turning weasel on the board and happy to answer any questions. Thank you. Questions from the board? So I know we've gotten some feedback public comments from a butters concerned about shadow and other things that I'm guessing has been brought up and just want to have you respond to that before we open it up to public testimony. Yes, absolutely. Matt chair, two comments on is that we have the support of all our director butters. I believe Tony Gordon and Jim Cosmin will be testifying this morning and lesson could not be here. She owns the building where the Brahmin is. She also said and a very strong support letter. The relief we're seeking is just to add one floor within the existing bill envelope. We have a previously approved project that is the identical height. That means the shadow impacts are not changing anyway. The relief we're seeking from the board won't affect the shadow of this building whatsoever. Purely internal change. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Here in none can I public testimony? Madam Chair members of the board, a connerner, new member of the mayor's office of neighborhood services. This time the mayor's office deferred and got from this board. As you have now, the representation this one through a very lengthy community process at several intervals led by the BPA involved like public meetings and further outreach with the community with valid for its report this time. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning, Madam Chair members of the board. At this time he would like to go to the board as a point. He has done so and led it to the board this morning due to good community process maneuvers. These 300 room hotel will be compliant with the maximum zoning patch and fire of the forest street district. The superintendent of the base commercial retail and office needs and a short walk from many of Boston's most visited tourist sites. Moreover, the resident and commercial space may provide a destination for the neighborhood. Consul three, especially request that the proponent and the Boston transportation department continue to work closely on issues of deliveries, loading, becaup and drop off with the A-bottles and stakeholders. Thank you. Good morning, Madam Chair members of the board. Christian Seminelli, Boston Royal Interest and we have both. Chica, I'll let us from the applicant. Thank you. Thank you. Miner, do we have the name? Thank you. Thank you, Madam Chair. Members of the board, mine up for us for presenting the carpenter's union. On behalf of hundreds of our members that have been worked on, seated, Boston, one of all, and stands for part of this bright one. Thank you. Thanks. I think that I'll go to Cameron. Hello, Jim. Cameron and Mary. Hi there. Thank you. This is Cameron and Maryl. I represent the Albert A. Pope condominium, which is a county corner to this property across from the park. Also, I see that my video is not on. I can leave it off if that's fine. But our primary concern with this project is the inevitable congestion that will cause. On one side that he did not see was the site plan and circulation plan, which is going to call for drop off and pick up to be directly outside the rear of our condominium building, which is 25 units and two commercial. And that area already presents a significant hardship on this community. If you go to the Google Street view, you'll see right in the Google view that there's a UPS truck blocking the area, which is intended to be the drop off and pick up for this site. Over the last several years, we've made numerous comments to the applicant in the city expressing our concerns, showing pictures, and we're clearly pointing this out. And the response was actually to drop this intersection from the traffic study because it is a mandatory left turn on the Canter's Place, which they determined was not an intersection. So it was not actually even considered in the traffic study, which was something that we pointed out in two written comments on this project. The also on Canter's Place, which is a private way, the condominium has parking along the left side of that road. This is an intersection, which is also frequently blocked by rubers, drop-offs, UPS, et cetera, for the present commercial. So to suggest that 300 additional units in the restaurant will have no impact on the community is just simply not true. And it's possibly not true because it wasn't studied as was requested. I'll try and keep my comments brief, but also the problematic situation in this area is that cars are often unattended during deliveries from this location. This is going to be a highly traffic-located mission, especially when stand-up is closed and made a plaza. And that needs to be studied. It needs to be addressed, and special attention needs to be made for it. In closing, it does not fit with the character of this neighborhood. There is a park directly across the street, which will be overshadowed by this, and changed the experience in that park. And there's just simply no basis for a variance for this request. Thank you. Thank you. Please keep additional comments brief and add additional information. Is there any? Jim, I'm in Kevin. Jim, I said to request under you. Can you talk about Kevin and then Anthony? Hello and good morning, everyone. Hello and good morning, Madam Chair, members of Board. This is Kevin O'Sullivan from Councilor Murphy's Office. Councilor Murphy did send in a letter of support, but also just wanted to be present today to voice support for this project. Thank you very much. And thank you for consideration time. Have a great day. Thank you. Thank you. Can you go on that chair, Patrick? Yes, please. Briefly, yes, please. Okay. No. Anthony? Good morning, Madam Chair of all divers, Deputy Director of the State Planning Plan, and for the MBTA. I understand the spots on their gone at lengthy community process. I was on the councilman's break. And at this time, we're not in support of opposition, but we'd like to have a conversation with the applicant about potential mitigation, given the increased service load that the project will generate. Thank you very much. May. Thank you. Thank you on the minds of Cohen President of the Backpays Association. And it's been my honor to participate in so many of the public processes regarding this site, including the zoning, the rezoning of the area that was initiated as part of the public benefit for the clarinet. So it's been a long journey. This is a minor adjustment. We support the efficiency of the building. I think it's very important to refine plans as you gather tent minutes and new more information. So we are in support of this. And thank you so much for hearing these comments. Thank you. Anthony? Anthony, go ahead, Anthony. Can you hear me? Yes. My name is Anthony Gordon. I own 35 stand hopes straight. Regarding the comments about light, the building faces to the south. The sunlight will not be blocked. And as far as the issues with traffic circulation, those should be worked out in the map, which I hope to engage with the city on. I am in support of this particular partition. Thank you. Thank you. I have no emotional waste hands. Okay. Any other questions from the board? May I have a motion? I am sharing a motion of approval for the project to continue with the departments. In third second. Mr. Stamford. Yes. Mr. Lancia. Yes. Mr. Linden. Yes. Ms. Ruo. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Ms. Benado. Yes. Sherrodow, it's yes. The motion carries. Thank you very much. Thank you. The 11 o'clock hour at this point will ask if there are any requests or withdrawals for the first funding of the clock here. Yes. Mr. Stamford, 53-85 Canal Street. Second for last. So that would be for case of B0816248-530. The address of 53-85 Canal Street. Would you explain to the board? Thank you, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Attorney Jeff Turego and Dr. Ego Dregor. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Caroline, do you want to confirm that date? Yes. September 10th. Okay. Any questions from the board? May I have a motion? I'll make a motion. Thank you. Go ahead. To the far end of September 10th, 2024. Thank you. Can you keep me on the second? Thank you. Second. Mr. Vistemberich? Yeah. Mr. Vistemberich. Yes. Mr. Lionel? Yes. Yes. Mr. Vivo? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Mr. Panato? Yes. Mr. Vox? Yes. The motion carries. Thank you. Thank you. Any further requests for withdrawals with referrals from the London Ball? Mr. Rancy, are you? Mr. Rancy, are you raising a grant for a deferral? Yes. You're on mute if you're speaking. We can't hear you if you're speaking, Mr. Rancy. Any other raised hands as we wait? You see no raised hands at the moment. I'm not sure. I think he's trying to defer, but I'm not sure. Can't hear me. We can hear you now. I'm sorry. I just made my head phone and I was using my computer audio but it wasn't working. If 10 times is clear, can we call? You have an explanation and it will be a matter of expression for board as it was. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. We're doing 11.5. I am. I apologize. I believe that's the leader. You know, I'm sorry. No, it's all right. Mr. Stembridge. With that, we will return to the 9.35. Or case B08157780 with the address of 61 Gladstone Street. If the applicant and the representative present, will they please start to reward? Morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board, my name is Jim Chen. I'm an architect at JCPT architect. I'll be representing my client Susan E. who is the owner. The subject property and 61 Gladstone Street has a large size of 55D while I buy 150 feet deep. The land area of 8,015, which is in 2,7,000 in the street. I'm sorry. Your voice is dropping off. The current use is a two-family residence with a 300-600 square feet of living area. Three-story high structure. We were cited for a Article 53 Section 8 for the footballed, for the bid and use of the three-family use. The proposal is to convert two units to a three-unit. Everything inside will be done internally with minor inter allele. So, an interior space will be extensive work and be modeling. So, we decided to convert our DIA into a three-family. So, the first floor we were made the same as unit 1 with two bedrooms and one bath. The second floor will be unit 2 with two beds and one bath. And the third floor will be unit 3 with one bed and one bath. So, all the internal layout will pretty much remain the same. But in order to have the co-compliant third unit, the third floor will require a second means of the address. And we're proposing the construction and exterior steer from the third floor all the way down to the exterior grade. And the exterior facade of the house will remain uninfected. Currently, at the front of the lot, it can fit up to three at the minimum three parking spaces. Which provides one space for each unit. The overall living area will remain the same when I'm requesting for any additional living spaces. This concludes my presentation. Feel free to, if you have any questions. Thank you. Questions from the board? Have you kind of compared, like, what you're seeking against the East Boston planning? Do you understand where you are in terms of compliance with that planning process? Yes. Okay. Can we have Mr. Hampton on this? Yes, I would have been my next question. Thank you. Mr. Hampton, are you available? I am. Madam Chairman, this is for Jeff Hampton, City Boston Planning Department. As you're aware, you know, there was a very extensive planning sposter process. That was adopted by the BPD 8 Board, back in January. And then the rezoning of the sposter, which went into effect in May of this year. We respect and watch with you here to the planning of the rezoning of all of the spost. And so as you have been aware, and past a few months, that any deviation from the plan or the new zoning, we are recommending denial. And that is the case today. And we hope that the board would look as that to respect the planning and the rezoning process to all of the spost. Thank you. Mr. Hampton, when was this a proposal that came in after this process was approved or previous? Well, it wasn't going to be allowed. It wasn't allowed under the old zoning, which is why it's here. The use still is forbidden under the new spost and zoning. The actually parking goes away, but the use is still not allowed. Okay. Thank you. Other questions from. Yes. I have a question for Mr. Hampton. Don't go away so quickly. I think you just turned off this video. Easier. Oh, there is. He moved on my screen. So I see that the recommendations for denial for three units. Are there any provisions that would allow this applicant to do an accessory dwelling unit? Instead, was that contemplated in the east spost and zoning? Or is it treated as three units? So now it's treated as three units. But there is a push citywide for the additional dwelling units as you're aware of as we will. I would encourage the proponent to contact the city. I mean, we have dedicated staff that deals only with additional dwelling units. We put them in the new Mattapans zoning recently. So I would encourage the balance to contact the planning document to discuss additional dwelling units. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? We have pulled a testimony. Good morning, Madam Chair and members of the board. My name is Eva Jones representing the mayor's office in the neighborhood services. I'm 16th and I'm glad so in three. Our office will defer to the board's judgment on this matter. A community process was conducted, including a butters meeting held on five eight, which was not attended by any constituents. Additionally, the proposal was reviewed with the Orient Heights neighborhood council and which can be on 715. The association has voted 12 in favor and five opposed regarding the proposal. At this time, the mayor's office and neighborhood services would like to defer to the board's decision. Thank you very much for your time and consideration. Thank you. And Madam Chair, I have no. The bachelor's on fire from councilor Coleta's office. And the base of it is not complied with plenty of spots and in the recommendation from BPD. A the council will like to go in a position of this project. Thank you. Thank you. No, man. Thank you. Okay. Any other questions from the board? May I have a motion? I'll make a motion for denial without prejudice so they can come back with a proposal that may be contemplates of a ADU in the future. Is there a second? I'll start. Mr. Stambridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Ms. Weow. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Ms. Pinato. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. The motion carries. Next we have case B.O.A. Case B.O.A. 162-288-7. It's the address of 246 Bremen Street. The applicant to end of their representative is present. Please apply to the board. Yes. Good morning. Madam Chair. Members of the board for the record Richard Linz, the business address of 245 Summars Street, he's Boston. I'm here on behalf of the petitioner, Lee Orr, Wazinsky. We also have a tidy canister from part one design project architects. This project would probably jump down to either slide four or five. I'll give a context of what we're looking at. So, Madam Chair, this is a pre-existing legal occupancy of two family dwelling our proposal, which changed the occupancy to four units. It also involves a weird and vertical addition of the building as well. This was filed prior to the enactment of the amendments to Article 53 and East Boston. However, we've designed this project to be in compliance with the proposed provisions and I'll run through that in a moment with respect to all the items that were cited in the public notice and how they do comply currently with Article 53 and amended portions of that. This will include a total of four two veteran units, all two that two that, the three upper level units include den slash workspace as we'll see in the four plan in a moment. As you can see, the site is located directly across from the Bremen Street Park. It is in the new designated EVF for zoning district. If we can jump down to a couple of slides further down, we can walk through some of the street news. Maybe jump to slide nine. So, the existing structure is here, standard looking triple-decker, very similar to what we see in the neighborhood. There are a number of other projects along this corridor of Bremen Street that have actually increased the height of four and in some cases five stories. The height that is now allowed by zoning is four stories, 50 feet. And that is allowed in the entire EVF for district. This building will have a complete facelift in addition to the additions that we spoke about. If we want to jump down to slide 18, I can walk through the program for the floor plans. So, we show no work being proposed in the basement. This left side of the screen, we are looking at the proposed layout for unit one. You can see that we do include a rear deck as well as the two-bedroom unit. If you can jump to the next slide please. So, levels two and three, very similar in layout. You can see look in and towards the front portion of the building. There is no closet included in that. So, these, as I mentioned, are all intended as two-bedroom, two-bedroom, with over a thousand square feet of habitable area. Plus, the rear-bibed deck for each unit. Next slide please. Let me show you in form, very similar to the layout below. We are not proposing a roof deck and that has been presented to the community and civic organization as well as two of buttons. Next slide please. So, we have here our elevations, our renderings of the elevations. You can see we do make a pretty substantial modification to the exterior of the building. Moving away from the final side is a pretty common along the Greenland Street. But this is certainly in line with a lot of the design elements and character of some of the newer projects that are being included along the Greenland Street. This moment later runs through briefly just some of the items that were cited and how they compare to the old zoning, in light of the new zoning that has been adopted. So, first of all, we were cited for use under the old zoning. Three family was the maximum number of units that were allowed. Multi-family is now allowed to leave the R4 districts, so that violation would disappear under the amended zoning. The additional lot area requirement that was typical in the East Boston neighborhood for most neighborhoods has also been eliminated under amended zoning. So, that would be no longer a violation of respect to this project. Likewise, the Florida area ratio maximum that was typical for this neighborhood has been eliminated and produced zoning. So, this again would comply with the EDF for zoning a men. The building height number of stories, as you can see our building is under the 50 feet maximum that is allowed. We are at four stories, which is also permitted. So, a lot that was cited under the prior zoning, the change in zoning will eliminate that violation. With respect to the rear yard setback, the new zoning requires a total of one third locked up, which would set the locked up at 26.4 feet. However, amended zoning preserved the exceptions to shallow lots in this case because a lot is only 80 feet in depth where we're allowed to reduce our rear yard setback to 16.4 feet. We are compliant as measured from the rear decks with that adjusted lot size. And therefore, that will also be in compliance with new zoning. With respect to open space that was cited by ISD under the original petition, that is also been eliminated in the new zoning. In this case, it's been replaced by a maximum lot coverage and minimal permeable area. Our lot coverage for this particular project is allowed to be up to 60% of the lot area, which we 12 feet, out of 2,000 square foot pot. We are proposing 1163 square feet of a lot coverage and therefore would be in compliance. With respect to permeable area, we also were able to comply with that because 30% minimum would be required under the new zoning. And because we are in excess of the 600 square feet that would be allowed, that would also be in compliance so that sort of replaces the issues with respect to open space. When we look at the side yard requirements, the existing building is being maintained and is at the current non-compliance setback for the prior zoning district, but would also be non-compliant under the new zoning. Under the provisions of a mended article 53, planning spots, and included a provision that allows for continuance of an expansion of non conformal structures. We provided that we maintained the existing non conformity and do not exceed either the setback and the rear or the height limit. We're able to continue along that plane. So in this particular case, even though the side yard would be non conforming under the new zone of the five feet, we would be permitted to extend the building back as long as we are within the rear and setback and extend the building up as long as we maintain a height of less than 50 feet or storage. We also have been cited for G-COT. We do have both letters, both no harm and lost the warrant. So we're allowed. And one of the last items I would point out is the parking. Under the amended zoning parking is no longer requirement for one to three units. So if this project were being changed to a three unit building, this would be in compliance. So if we were to propose a new fourth unit, we would be required to have the one additional parking space, which gets triggered under new zoning at the fourth unit. I believe the board is pretty familiar with the city's policy that they do not appreciate or at least were approved cour cuts to create one Austrian parking space for proposed projects such as this. So we would opt for the variance on the parking respect to the additional unit that would be proposed about the number of three units. I would point out that this project is looking directly across from Remedstreet Park as well as the entrance to the airport stations, less than 150 yards. And this would be very consistent with the design of buildings, a lot of Remedstreet that do not have dryways or off street parking as well. So at this moment, the answer may be questions before addressing comments regarding the zoning for the VPD is recommendation. Thank you questions from the board. Can you speak to the sea level rise design flood elevation comment in the BPD recommendation? If we can jump back to slide three please. So we can see here the overlay from the GIS map or for the flood zone. And our site is located is that one that's actually labeled in the orange shaded area. It's not labeled with the address. It's located between would be the double size lot that says Remedstreet. And then we have 244 Remedstreet to that block that does not have any label on it is our lot. As you can see that isn't the flood would be considered flood zone X not in the flood zone. So while we are within the 0.2 percent of the area, we would not be part of any of the flood zone which we were excited for. So with respect to sea fraud, this application being filed prior to the enactment of the amendment. So Article 53 this would have been exempt from the sea front applicability, which only applied to projects that exceeded the thresholds are at that time. And we are not proposing any habitable living space in the lower, lower base level. The building is not being demolished. We're not constructing the buildings from the ground up. This is a renovation existing structure with proposed additions. So we do believe that we are in general compliance with sea front as it existed on the big the application was filed. Okay. Thank you. Mr. Hansen, are you available? Yes. Any other questions from the board? You're in done. Can I have public testimony? Good morning Madam Chair and members of the board. My name is Heather Jones representing the mayor's not the Senate Board of Services. Regarding 246th Environment Street are office will defer to the board's judgment on this matter. A community process was conducted including in the butters meeting held on 522, which was slightly attended by one constituent. The primary feedback from the meeting was concerned about increasing density with no parking availability. Additionally, the proposal was reviewed by Maverick Central Neighborhood Association, which convened on June 19th. The association has expressed. Okay. I'm sorry, Ms. Jones, you can have that back up because you you you broke out once you started to say something about the Maverick square. My apologies. My apologies. The butters meeting was held on 522 and was slightly attended by one constituent. The primary feedback was concerned about increasing density with no parking availability. The applicant did meet with the Maverick Central Neighborhood Association on June 19th and the civic voted yes and provided a letter of feedback. I will let you support my. Good morning, Madam Chairman. This is the board. It's a passion for our from council. It's office and we would like to call attention to the lack of parking based on Plankton. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? I'll be right back. Mr. Stonebridge. Mr. Valencia. Mr. Langham. Mr. Collins. Mr. Fanado. Thank you very much. The point we're going to be hearing scheduled for 11 a.m. I will ask you and if there's any request for the question, you also prefer for the 1130 time frame. That would be good. We run for the 1130 time frame. Any request for the draws of the draw? Yes, Mr. Stonebridge. And Thompson Square. That would be for ACE BOA 134023. The B.A. address of 10. Go ahead. Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board. I'm Mr. George Florentse. I'm the attorney with the business address of three. Good evening, West Parkway and South Austin. Madam Chair, members, I am prepared to present today. However, I was confined with Mr. Hampton from the planning department. We have updated plans that are responsive to the B.P.D.A.'s original planning recommendation from last March, April. We have been engaged in a lengthy community process. We're in Charlestown, April Council, Charlestown Preservation Society. We have a basic design and building massing that I think everybody, well, certainly the massing that everybody brings. Three story buildings which complies with the planning recommendation. However, again, a consultation with Mr. Hampton. It has been noted that because the examiner at ISD finished his review of the plans and uploaded them into the portal only yesterday. The B.P.D., the planning department, has not had an opportunity to review those plans. And perhaps all of their recommendation. As I said, I'm willing to proceed. I told Mr. Hampton that as an all matters, I would leave it to the discretion of the court. So what it is up to you at this point, are you seeking a deferral? Are you going to proceed? The advice of the planning department, again, hoping to avoid similar situation to earlier this morning, I would seek it for all. I would ask if possible since there have been so many deferrals in this matter. If it could perhaps be a quick one because the only purpose of it is to allow for the planning department to review the revised plans. Carolyn, what do you know? We could do September 24th. That would be fantastic. May I have a motion? Motion to the first of September 24th. Is there a second? Second. There's the second. Mr. Stemberidge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Mr. Crow. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Panado. Yes. Mr. Van Schu. Yes. Motion carries. Thank you. In that case, yes. Returning to the hearing schedule for a long day, we have case B.O.A. 161-3252 with the address of 13 to 17 Tangoon Wood Road. And actually, that's a companion case. Two cases B.O.A. 161-3247 with the address of 1111 to 1113 Washington Street. If the applicant and all their representatives present, please explain to them more. I'm going to ask the applicant to explain to them more. Let's try to give them a little. Anyone after this case can you raise your hand if you're going to be able to present? Yes. Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board, my name is Charlie Tevon. I'm an attorney at 15 Broad Street, Boston, in on behalf of Brian Crowley of 25 Moreland Street. The 1111 to 1113 Washington Street in Rochester. The proposal, Madam Chair, is to construct four townhouse units at the rear of 1111 Washington Street to be known as 13-17 Tangoon Wood Road. The existing building at 1111 Washington Street, which will remain, is a large rooming house, which provides reasonably priced affordable housing for 18 single-room occupancy tenants. The existing property is well kept and well managed and will remain as is. Again, the proposal before you is for a four-unit quantum-many-in-town house in the rear of the 1111 Washington Street. There is an existing curb cut on Tangoon Wood Road. The project provides for eight parking spaces total, two tandem parking spaces per unit, located underneath each unit at eight bicycle spaces, two per unit. We have submitted 14 letters to support for our immediate butters, including direct-to-butters located on Tangoon Wood Road, as well as directly across the street, and behind the property and on either side of the property. In addition, at the Lower Mill Civic Association, executive board meeting, the individual board members express support for the proposed project, although no formal vote was taken. There is no opposition to this project of which we are aware. The existing parcel is 12,953 square feet, a large lot, given the dimensions of the lot and the surrounding structures on Tangoon Wood Road and Washington Street. This proposal is in context with the immediately abutting properties on Tangoon Wood Road and Washington Street. The proposal is to subdivide the existing 12,953 square foot lot, resulting in the front house lot at 1111 Washington Street having 7,301 square feet with five off-street parking spaces and the rear lot to be known as 13-17 Tangoon Wood Road, having 5,652 square feet, consisting of four townhouse units with eight off-street parking spaces as no-during the road. The proposed structure is placed on the Tangoon Wood Road property with a 10 foot rear yard setback and a proposed front yard setback of 15 feet to accommodate the driveway for the necessary off-street parking provided in this proposal. We are asking for required relief for the left side setback, the right side setback as well as the rear setback. The four townhouse units proposed are each three bedroom units. The aggregate living space for each unit is 2,844 square feet. Looking at the surrounding buildings and homes in the area, the context, we feel that this is appropriate with three story structures on both sides of Tangoon Wood Road and Washington Street. I know that we are also requesting a relief on the height of the proposed building at 43 feet, 7 inches, and 35 feet is the permitted height under the code. The architect, Madam Chair, will Chalfon from KDI is available on this hearing to answer any design-related questions. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Madam Chair, a question. Yes, ma'am. So if we can go back to the site plans, there's on the more zoning, a kind of landscape looking on the colorful one. That parking space that's sort of on its own and most circular, I guess, opening. I don't see that on the site plan. It looks to be like a conflict. Can you speak to that? And there's no curve opening there either. That one car on its own. It may not, ma'am, this we will. It may not be reflected on the site plan, but my understanding is it is existing. So I, but I would defer to. To Mr. To Wilchell, if he could respond. Sure. Thank you. Again, we'll sell on calls for the time representing applicant. So being that existing structure, tangled is. There's real no clear delineation between landscape and streets, sort of a continuous car cut. So what we're proposing is to carve out a dedicated space and create more landscaping around that area, just to. Make sure that is a dedicated spot, but. Tear point is not showing several drawings, but it is existing. So I mean, if it's not on the proposed site plan to me that says you're not keeping it, but can you answer that? That stuff here is being oversight by the someone you never certainly able to recognize that quickly and recently that's necessary. Okay. I mean, I'm just. I personally would love to be supportive of that one space. I don't know if. BPD or planning department or. BPD would be, but it wasn't. I don't know if it was before them. So. Yeah, we'd be happy to remove it in the existing reporting house. Ten and two not happy. Ecos. This was primarily vacant. One of the residents here used to train so it would not be a huge loss to remove that space. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Hampton, are you available? Thank you, Madam Chairman. It was before the Japan planning department. We agree with you, Mr. Meanwhile. If it's not there, I don't want it to be approved, to be honest with you. Looks like it's taken up some green space right there. Words for the development of the townhouses. Behind the watching house and it's supported in the subdivision. It's the parking that we kind of have an issue with. So I think it could be softened a little with some screening, buffering their systems to be a little bit of excessive pavement going on there. I just have a question out there. Are things spaces underneath the proposed townhouses? Yes, there's two tandem spaces. And then you have another wall, what's shown on the other side. There was another five correct. So in these four would be dedicated towards the town homes, correct? No, the others are allocated for the existing running house. Okay. All right. Yeah, we do some. We're not opposed to the project behind it. And we're not opposed to the project behind the parking. From our point of view, it needs a little softening. Thank you. Now public testimony. Madam Chair, members of the board, conorning with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. This time, the mayor is also referred to the judgment of this board. When I spoke to the butter's meeting, we're no concerns for rings. I'm not saying secured 14 letters of support. We're out of any concerns at this time. And that would be for the board. Thank you. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is Bill Decker. With the office of City Council, preparing lower-off. And we're in regards to the floor to the 17-table, and I don't receive the bell. I heard there was a support from the butter neighbors. I don't know there was a opposition. The council would like to go on record and support this project. Thank you. Kevin, I say it's a bit close to anything. I am sorry about that. Hello and good morning, everyone. Hello and good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. Thank you very much for recognizing me. This is Kevin O'Sullivan from Council on Murphy's Office. Council on Murphy would like to stand with Council on the way around. And with the community in support of this project. Thank you very much for your time and consideration. I hope everyone has a great day. Thank you. Madam Chair, I'd like to give testimony as well. I'm actually a Director of the Butterfly. So I have a legal address of 10-12 in the road. And I'm in support. The women's house is great. The tenants and the owner is very respectful. And they did present their townhouse by doing so. There was no issues. There was a really great small street and a number of support. Thank you. I have no additional raise. Thank you. Will that be a motion? I'll make a motion to move with BPD. Sorry. BPD A designer, you special attention to the parking. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Stanley. Mr. Collins, can I remove that side parking space? Yes. Okay. I would assume you would. I just want to make clear. That's all. Thank you. All right. I'm sorry. Was I... Were we voting? Was there a second? Second. Thank you. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Volencia. Yes. Mr. Lengom. Yes. Mr. Vuel. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Pinato. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. The motion carries. Thank you. Thank you, Madam Chair. Members of the board. And thank you, Madam Ambassador. Next case is case B.O.A. One, four, two. The bill was not bad, Chair. But I believe there was a message in the chat asking to... The floor on the case for 1130. But there were having issues with the internet connection. Okay. I can't see it. But we want to... Six data. Six data. Six data. Okay. Okay. You... Well, we can keep going and see if there are... Are you coming back? Unless Caroline, you want a motion now? We can do a motion now to defer. Okay. We just don't have a date because we don't know why they wanted to defer. Yeah. It's end builders. Is your audio working currently? And that's the end of that. It's the end of that. It's the end of the panel. Let's just see if that makes a difference. Actually, the client, can you press accept? Let me see the panel in the screen. Am builders? I'll try to unmute you. Okay. Okay. We just have to end the panel. So the panel is, you'll have the option to unmute yourself. This is it. I'm just going to mute. I'm thinking about calling if you want to make sense. I can leave you the panel. Another step is easier. Madam Chair, we can continue on. That's what I would suggest. Thank you. Thank you. So with that, you go to case B.O.A. 3, 4, 2, 3, 7, 5, 2, with the address of 3 1 1st Street. It's the applicant and what they're representing. What present? With the, yes, you hear me? They put, it's this for a 3, 3 1st Street. We have to go ahead and explain. Okay. Madam Chair, I'm in. I'm Chairman and board. My name is Joseph Luna. I'm here representing our client. I'm French Voltaucca for our 3 1 1 2 3, 3 1 2 3 in Dorchester. We were here approximately about a year and a 1 1 1 1 2 3, representing this project. And we were denied without prejudice to convert an existing 954 square feet partially finished basement into a 4th unit in an existing. 3, 3 unit building. We were denied due to insufficient ceiling height of 7 1 1 2 1 2 feet, which is required by building code. We went back, investigated the structure, found out that there was a fall ceiling in place. We were able to take that out and increase the ceiling height to just over 7 1 1 2 feet. We're, see here with the same conditions, in addition to parking. I should note that although there are two 10 parking spots on the site. There's ample osprey parking. It's part of the project. Our intent is to put in a two bed study. Renovated or unit at the basement level. It is a walk out so there's direct access. We meet. We arrested, we pressed codes in all respect. Part of the work will be putting in a full NFPA 13 R system inside the building, which currently is not not sprinkled. We did have, which we went to the community process at mixed reviews at that at that meeting. Primarily due to parking over my client has submitted additional letters of support to the world prior to this being yesterday. Essentially that for what asked you for is to have the increase additional unit and taking the questions before they have it this time. Thank you. Can you talk about more about your parking situations? I, you know, we did receive a lot of comments. Right. There's that. It's a response. You should have copied the site plan with some of it that was prepared by the union with socialists. We just go, we can work out that, that, that Nordic lead plan. To the left of the building are two Austrian ten, ten of parking spaces. There has been a lot of redevelopment inside that area and there are all those projects. Do you have? Austrian parking, which is alleviating a lot of the on street parking. But right now there is no ability for us to get any additional parking because of limited width of the site. And currently there are two tandem most parking spaces on the left side of the property as you face from the path on the street toward the house. Any other questions from the board? Hearing none, can I public testimony? Madam Chair, members of the board, following with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. So this time the mayor is offered to the judge on this board. A zero-final representation that they're going to make the opinions expressed during this community process. The Raider Hartford Street Association in Restorctor office in opposition to the proposal, as well as some of the butters expressing concerns with parking as we heard. As well as they reportedly have had some challenges with tenions on the property. Three years, which are called that are much more than this proposal. Letters of opposition in support should be forwarded to the board and the board members should have access to that. With that, I will first the board at this time. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Hampton, are you bringing it? Thank you, Madam Chair. In addition to the Councilor, Mr. Littleb好吃 and buildings with office board, is clearly intensive an added support guidance. Unlike battenwood city vo seek planning, we're on record, recommending approval. The only providers that I would ask would the board besides approved this, no building code relief. I'm adding some legislation to show that indeed. We'll count to know that. Can we have a testimony? Yes, can you hear me? Yes, my name is Melissa Miranda. I'm the owner of 8500 Street, 10500 Street and 14500 Street. Also, the Labour on the next street behind which is Tramble Street by Leif. This house was originally built as a single family. At some point it was converted to a 2 and then to a 3. As the authority mentioned, there is two random street parking spaces, which essentially only accommodates one of the units being at its tandem. We do have a shortage of parking in the neighbourhood. We have six shelters within a quarter mile radius of this property, some which has up to 12 families per shelter and none of them provide parking. So parking has become a huge issue for all of the residents in the neighbourhood. Additionally, the neighbourhood is predominantly some more family homes and two family homes. It's not conducive to a four unit building. It's too small. It's not conducive with the other buildings in the neighbourhood. So I strongly oppose that this goes forward. Thank you. Thank you. I have no other questions from the board. Here none can have a motion. I would like to thank Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Lino. Yes. Mr. Collins. Mr. Arra. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Arra. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. The motion carries. Thank you very much. Good luck this new day. Thank you. Next we have case B08159-93010 with the address of 177 Old Street. It's the aftercens and their represent present. Please stand to the voice. That can be raised your hand if you want to. Mr. Fogel. Good. Mr. Fogel. Can you make your panelists by and as well. I'm going to mute yourself anyway. You have to unmute yourself. Good morning, Madam Chair and the board. My name is Derek Grudenoff. I'm from Derek Grudenoff of Architect 82-84 Spring Street in West Ross, and I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. I'm from the city of West Ross. kilo charged onionchuckles for up to 18,000 species of biodiversity around our country. And what about the whole number of breeds of apartment? Anyึ zeros in our country. Anyึ zeros in our country. Any zest in our country. Anyึ zeros in our country. Any irrelevant shared climate of strikes Ms. Lilliano Conner, President of the City of Point Neighborhood Association. We voted on August 13th to support the project based on the changes that the architect and the owners were able to make. They have finally gotten their paperwork together, Izie dotted, cheese across, and we will support the project at this time as it's responsible development in our neighborhood and is an obstructing the architectural integrity of the neighborhood. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. We have no additional waste hands, sorry. Thanks. Any questions or other questions from the board? Karen, not in an M motion. Make a motion to approve with no rebuilding call relief. Is there a second? That hand. Mr. Lilliano, if you want to take that off, that's fine. We will look at that old set of plans that didn't have elevations, but the other new elevations that are 8, 6 down in the basement. So that's not an issue anymore. Okay, I'll make a motion for approval. Okay, is there a second? Okay. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Lilliano. Yes. Mr. Lilliano. Mr. Lilliano. Yes, ma'am. Mr. Lilliano. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Nottel. Yes. Chair votes. Yes, the motion carries. Thank you. Next, we have Cate B.O.A. 159-5753. The address of 539-7. The applicant entered the representative present. Please, by any case, with one. Right, the name. If you're on for this proposal, can you raise your hand? Okay, on the table. I see a hand raise. I'm sending a request to make your panelists. I'm sending a request to the representative. I'm sending a request to the representative. I'm sending a request to the representative. I'm sending a request to the representative. I'm sending a request to the representative. I'm sending a request to the representative. I'm sending a request to the representative. I'm sending a request to the representative. I'm sending a request to the representative. I'm sending a request to the representative. I'm sending a request to the representative. I'm sending a request to the representative. I'm sending a request to the representative. I'm sending a request to the representative. I'm sending a request to the representative. I'm sending a request to the representative. I'm sending a request to the representative. I'm sending a request to the representative. I'm sending a request to the representative. I'm sending a request to the representative. I'm sending a request to the representative. I'm sending a request to the representative. My name is David Clivenoff. I'm representing the Bougosian Development LLC who owns the property union in the property in 549 Columbia, in 549 Columbia, Sauvanieu, in MF, in MF, residential local services zone. And they're seeking to do some improvements to make to make at the headquarters of Launfellow Design Build. which is Mr. Bougosian's company. The applicant was rejected for two violations. I was both a violation to quite technical in nature, which I will explain, but I think it makes sense if Hailey Madero walks you through the proposed project first, so I would defer to Hailey. Hi everyone, I'm Hailey Madieris, a architectural designer with long-flow design build. Mark Bogosian, the owner of this property will actually be the one, President, President. Good afternoon, thank you for hearing our project today. Just to give you a little content, we have moved an office to the area, and we've was a great success. Our staff has loved working there. I have a home about a quarter mile away on Columbus, so this was a great fit. So when we saw this building come up for sale, we felt it was a great move for us. A little bit about a company. We are design build companies, so we do projects from residential to small commercial projects. We employ most of the people that work for us. So we have architects, engineers, but we also have plumbers, carpenterers, electricians, everybody right on staff to do all the remodels and all the projects. So this area in the city as a whole has been a great fit. A team that's very excited to work in this city. A little bit about the project itself. If you see on the screen here, you can see what the front of it is. There was a, when we found this, we liked the space, because the lower level and the upstairs had a loft area, that's what kind of drove us to looking at the space. Understanding it needed a lot of work. That was okay for us, because that was what we did, and we felt like we could put our, but a great project together and show our potential customers that our office space was designed and built by our team. It has been numerous different businesses and really following and pretty disrepair. So it's something that we realized needed everything from the outside to all the interior renovations. Going through, you can see now the rendering of what we're proposing. We want to make sure it keeps with the neighborhood. You know, our business is geared towards working with people in the community. So having them walk by and having a good sense of, this is the company I trust to remodel my kitchen or put in new windows, is what we want to make sure we get across. So updating the facade to make it look like it's always been there. So working through to make sure it has historical significance, as well as a good quality looking feel. So this is a rendering of what it would look like. When you dive into the floor plans, the existing condition shows the three different levels of office space. So this is what we want to maintain. As David mentioned, a lot of the details of the permitting has been a little bit new to us as this, you know, the technicalities. So that's why we wanted to now take a step back and have taken the last six months of really working with the community and different associations to make sure that we're trying to make sure everyone's happy with what we're doing. We're hoping you guys see the same fit. So going into the proposed, now that you're kind of seeing some of this, what we have is open air. So if you look at the first floor, you walk in, you're going to end up with kind of an open style lounge area, with more congregating and showing off some of the cabinetry we do, but it's also meeting with potential clients. We also move through and have a bathroom and then some conference rooms and then going up and downstairs. You've got an open locked field. So this feels as you're going up, you can see up to above. Similar to how it is built as of right now. And then going down, it is just opening that space up to take advantage of the natural light that exists to have a more desks for staff both up and down with the primary meeting space being on the first floor, which is the main space for people as far as the public coming in and meeting with us. Going down, we can see the outside. This is a little bit more details of what we're proposed, which is the outside, keeping that storefront windows to give it that historical but commercial feel. And then the back of the building just installing new windows, re-pointing the brick, including up the outside, which needs a lot of repair as it sits today. So at the front and back, we'll now be updated. We've agreed also from our condo association standpoint. I'm not one of the trustees on that, but one of the things we told association, we felt that we're already in the business of doing this. We own a big portion of the building. We're going to be paying to do all these updates to the outside, brick, and whatnot that is no expense to the other owners. They were excited to hear that. So in cleaning the building, we realized we didn't want to burden that with an assessment of all the different owners that we just will take care of that. Now everyone's excited to get this looking much nicer. The zoning violations. David, I'm happy to go through these. Or you could go through that. Let me address those. Why don't you just wrap up and show them any existing conditions, Joe, as you've got? Are we able to share our swing? No, you're not. It's a little lucky. So if we were to show you the inside, I can just show you, when you go downstairs, it's just a lot of existing space that was remodeled maybe for the last 20 or 30 years, I think without any real care of quality or doing it properly. So there's a lot of just deferred maintenance, office space that is, it meets the definition of an office space, but not a fun work environment in our nice work environment. So we are working to add those things to this plan. So if you're looking into the basement, you walk in there now, if you look at the screen, you can see where number one and two. This space is all there, but it's just, it's not, you know, it's rather awkwardly laid out. Same thing when you're going on the upstairs. So the things that we're adding to this are just going to allow. A nicer space that will fit more with the character of the neighborhood, as well as a better solution to clients that are coming in. And if they're willing to model their kitchen or bathroom or floors, they can be standing on nice floors, not layers of wood flooring that has been, you know, nailed down. So maybe we can pause here and see if there are questions from the board. Any questions from the board? I'm curious, you know, that cannot be public testimony. Look, could you want to hear about the violations or we all said? I think we're okay for now. Good morning, Madam Chair and afternoon, good afternoon, Madam Chair and members of the board. Thank you. Regarding 549 Columbus Ave, our office will defer to the board's judgment on this matter. A community process was conducted, including in a butters meeting held on 722, which is what attended lightly by about five to seven constituents. The primary feedback from the meeting was concerns about flooding in the private way behind the building, which the applicant expressed some interest in helping the community figure out a solution form. They also expressed some concerns about the seating and planters being used in the front of the property to make sure it is being put away at the end of every night to make sure that nobody uses the planters to hide or to sleep behind such as things like that. Additionally, the proposal was reviewed with the Claremont Neighborhood Association, which convened prior to the butters meeting. The association expressed a project will add value to our neighborhood with some great design changes to the neglected commercial property, which is currently vacant. The applicant should also be commended for the early and frequent community engagement. Ultimately, Claremont Neighborhood Association has supported the proposal and provided a letter support as well. This time, the mayor's office will would like to disaffirter the board's decision. Thank you for your time. Thank you. But now we have no additional waste hands. Any other questions from the board? Here in Nunley, can I have a motion? A motion of proof. It's a second. Mr. Stemberidge. Yeah. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. As we will. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Panato. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. The motion carries. Good luck. Thank you very much. The next case is deferred. So move on to case B-O-A. 1-5-5-5-1-6-8. With the addresses, be registered, avenue. If the applicant and no of the representative present, would they please explain? Yes. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Thank you. It's a single family home we're keeping it the same occupancy. We would just like to add the rear decks finish the basement and you've been there. Yes. Ok. Can you walk us through like, what's what's what's the current violation? I mean, it was just the, the, the, the, we need to really fire out the rear decks and the roof deck and to the basement. That is all. Okay. Are there questions from the board? Mr. Hampton, are you available to weigh in on that question? Yes, thank you Madam Chair, members and forward Jeff Hinton, the city of Austin, planning department. I think we are a little confused on the proposal here. Are there existing, is there an existing porch or deck now that is just a place? Or is this maybe there's, there's no existing porch or deck now. We're just trying to match our neighbor next door who has the two rear decks and the roof deck. We spoke to him before we tried to do the plans and he proves and supports us to do it. We're just trying to make it easier to access access to roof from the back instead of having to have a hatching side. Because the space inside is very minimal. Okay, so rear addition, the rear, the rear set back will be impacted by this. And I don't know if Mr. Hampton can tell me by how much? Yeah, I think with the proposal, they're only going to have a seven foot set back. We'd love to see a minimum of 15 there and the way the roof deck is situated. We'd like to have that push back from the rear. That's why we recommended to not have prejudice. There were just a lot of questions from our shop about the proposal that we have before us. Yeah, I don't know if maybe I don't know if design review could do this that we minimize, but I don't know what that brings in the building code or something like that. That's really kind of baffled on this one. It seems pretty straightforward, but from our point of view, we recommended to know without prejudice just because we didn't know truly what was going on. Okay, thank you. Other questions from the board? Sharing none. Can I pull the testimony? Good afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the board. It's the best time for our from councilor Colorado's office. Based on the support from the community, the council would like to go and support this part as well. Thank you. Okay, I have no visual insights at the moment. Okay. Would that may have a motion? Yes, I would like to make a motion that now without prejudice. Is there a second? Pardon? Mr. Stumbridge? Yeah. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Mr. Langham? Yes. Ms. Ruiwell? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Ms. Pannato? Yes. The Chair votes yes, the motion carries. And with that, we can take a 15 minute break. Recording stopped. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Langham. Mr. Collins. President. Mr. Langham. President. All right. Excellent. The pleasure is Mr. Stembridge. Thank you, Madam Chair. I'm not sure if we've gotten a response from the folks. Mr. Langham. Mr. Langham. Mr. Langham. Mr. Langham. Mr. Langham. Mr. Langham. Mr. Langham. Mr. Langham. Mr. Langham. Mr. Langham. Mr. Langham. Mr. Langham. Mr. Langham. Mr. Langham. I'll do that for you, ensuring the place that you lie. Are you well? I just want you to be calendar and let us- I'll see them. OK, I'm going to suggest we keep going and several back. Sounds good. Thank you. The next case would come to the top. The next case would be short. So we'll go to case VOA 1563599. The address of 9 Geneva Street. Representative of President of the employees of Point. Well, this is an autoclave case also. Yes, thank you, Mr. Semmerich. Good afternoon. Madam Chair, members of the point for the record of Richard Lins for the business address at 2.25. Summarshreet East Boston, the alpha petitioner with me is Donnie Gary from a cell in our expects. Who is our project architect? Probably jumped out to slight to. And I'll think of a quick overview for the board. That's Mr. Semmerich. This is an autoclave project proposal with demolish and existing single family dwelling at a long standing auto repair site. We would then be combining a total of seven lots to create a single lot of 14,000 and expert feet. And we have the applicant proposes to then construct a multi family residential dwelling containing a total of 28 residential units. 16 garage parking spaces, the bike storage and a common rear courtyard, which will include a dog run and approximately 5,000 square feet of open space. The project would include a number of community benefits, including improvements to Geneva Street, which is seen in an increase in an uptake in development in the past years. We are also proposing to include five units under the city. The represent about 17, 20% of the total units being proposed. This is a rental project. This will result in all those IDP units having a maximum AMI of 7%. The breakdown of the units is a 4 1 bed 22 bed and fourth rebred bedroom units. And again, this is this is not undergone a very involved meeting process over the past couple of years, as well as a complete, highly review. The BPD board voted to approve the project on June 13th of this year. So we just chuck down the next slide, please. Just to give context, because I know this is always an important issue in these parts of community, but this site is very similar last presentation. I may also look here in the flood zone X. It is in the coastal flood resizing the overlay district. And therefore, the provision to be able to do a client, even though this was 5 4 prior to the amendment of the zoning code. I think it's possible, because it's an hourly project that does trigger the requirements received by them. I'll explain that. I want to do the zoning review. Next slide, please. So just you can see here the 7 parcels that are being combined that we have the site that includes the single family home, as well as the auto air site. And we'll see those in a moment in the next slide, please. So just a bird's eye view and a view of the area that we're proposing you can see the single family home on the bottom right hand side of your string. So with the auto air, look here directly next door, clearly the auto air, even though that is pre-existent. Most of the development in this area is certainly a main and valuable use with the changing uses along Geneva Street. This board has recently proved a number of multi family projects for Geneva Street. And this sort of continues in that main with respect to the type of uses that are generally being accepted in this area. So just a better bird's eye view of the site, you can see uses that are sort of wrapping around the back of the building directly behind our site is a moving airport that is the consolidated rental car facility, immediately to our left. Is a parking park that is owned operated and maintained by mass port. Next slide, please. I just a street view of the auto air next slide. View up Geneva Street and I'm sure it's a ordinary call. There are certainly a number of concerns that have been raised about conditions of Geneva Street, which is a pilot way. Our client is working closely with other developers long to even are to other larger projects that either under construction already approved Virginia Street and there is a coordinated effort to make those improvements to Geneva Street. So we'll benefit all the properties along here next slide. Different view of single family, just the next slide. And just to show recent projects completed, which I would say represents the book end for this side of Geneva Street. As you can see, it's a five story building multi family use. This is on the opposite side of that parking park that I left next slide, please. So some rendering here just to show the proposed project in context. As you can see, we do have a total of five stories and I'll talk a little bit about that when we get to this zoning compliance review. That fifth level is step back. We do include balconies on a number of units. And you can see that we do have the garage entranceway towards the right side of the building. As I referred earlier to Geneva Street and the improvements that we made, highly heart-leading process and some of the benefits that we would include is the introduction of a sidewalk on this side of the industry that looks then all the way down to Mavir. So we have a pretty significant improvement that will be made into the public realm. There will be a number of street trees that will include on this side as well. Next slide, please. Just a different view. You get to see the balcony steps the floor step back. Next slide, please. Just showing the rear of the building. And as I said, the pocket car would be off in the distance on the right side of your screen. And that they saw the wrecked the car facility off to the rear. It's a pretty substantial area that we would make as a common amenity for the building. So all of the units that have access to this and we do include a dog run, which is something that was suggested through the community process for this project. Next slide, please. Different view. Just let me have a back. Next slide. And just a street view showing what the conditions would be with some of the other projects that have either been approved or on the next slide. We could probably jump down at this point to slide 19, please. And I think this is a good point to just walk through some of the zoning items that we were cited for. As I mentioned earlier, this has been in classes for some time. So we did apply for our permit prior to the amendments to Article 53. So with respect to the items that were cited in the letter in the comparison to the current zoning that is now in place. First was G cod. We do have both letters from the Boston, our commission as well as the bill on whether. After parking was cited under prior zoning, the number of parking spaces were dictated by Article 53 table and new zoning amendment allows for the BPD to determine the appropriate parking for the project. If it is subject to article 80. So in this case, we are proposing 16 parking spaces total as well as a bike racks that are shown on our site plan. We'll show those in a moment. The bike area being insufficient is no longer a violation in the EPR for district of the amended zoning is eliminated in the middle of the size requirement for most of these Boston. Additional live area being insufficient is also not applicable. Same reasons as the lot area requirement. In for your ratio being excessive. There is no maximum FAR. At least in the EPR for district are several districts that do include that but no longer in the F4. I'm down to slide 26 actually I'll talk about the building height and stories. That was originally cited in the refusal letter because the maximum height originally for this district was 35 feet and three stories. The EPR for zoning district has increased the maximum height to 50 feet by total of four stories. I know this question comes up a lot on what is the name of the paper out that the building being proposed five stories or at least the appearance of five stories would at first watch your feet on comply with the new zoning. What the board has to consider and certainly what we explain through the community processes because where the coastal flood resins the only district there are exceptions to the dimensional requirements of the application of dimensional requirements especially when it comes to height. First of all the design flood elevation is the operative measuring point as opposed to grade or the sidewalk. So in this particular case the design flood elevation being higher than the sidewalk is really actual height of building is measured. So even though this building shows it's 51 feet four inches as being building height under under the zoning. We are allowed to have additional height because of the presence of the sea front also with respect to the number of stories when calculating stories and choices or is aware. Article 2 specifically states that the first story is that which is 65% or more above grade again because we're in sea front. So the first story for zoning purposes is actually the level above the garage and therefore this would be considered for zoning purposes a four story building in the city. So we're not going to be able to do that because of the cost of the coastal flood resins the exceptions. We also if you want to jump back to the site plan we were cited for a rear yard under the old zoning and the site plan is at 17 because slide 17 please. So we identify the rear yard as an area which is located directly behind the building as you can see the rear lot line of the new lots that are being combined is not parallel to the back of our building. And that occurs there are exceptions for the application of rear yard under Article 53 and in this case we generally meet the setback requirement there are areas both left and right rear within 10 feet of the rear yard at least the rear property line that is being partly assembled lot when we have that situation we can average the rear yard setback and as long as we are confiable within the setback requirement this would be team compliant. With respect to the new regulations into effects under Article 53 even though they don't work necessarily applicable when we apply including building lock coverage permeable area building that as I mentioned this is a fully reviewed article the BPD was satisfied that this met substantially was a substantial alignment with the zoning amendment and place Boston's recommendations. So with that I will pause it answer any questions from the board regarding the proposed project. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Is Geneva Street going to remain a private street? I believe so that this has been an ongoing conversation for a number of years. I actually permit two of the first buildings on Geneva Street and I know that we had conversation public improvement commission. I don't know that there's a specific appetite for the city to take this and make up on the way however any improvements to Geneva Street needs to meet PIC requirements. And therefore any sidewalks or any improvements to the street itself have to comply with the PIC guidelines. And then how does snow removal and the like get handled? I don't want to speak for public works or speak out of turn. I believe public works does applaud to the industry. I don't want to go to anybody. Anyway, the spot I do believe this by public works whether that's a legal or a fire not this above my pay grade. Thank you. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Can I have public testimony? Good afternoon, Madam Chair and members of the board. Sebastian Powell from Councilor's Office. Councilor's in conversation with the BPDA on how C fraud aligns with police processing saying as it was not analyzed or taken into consideration by the committee during the planning. And for any project in front of the CBA board that has additional elevation to comply with C fraud. We will leave it up to this question on the board until we have received those guidelines. Thank you. Thank you. Members of the board, we'll call on and move to Mayor's Office of Member of the Services. This time the mayor is obviously referred to the judgment of this board. This went through a BPD led community process where they also went on to connect local neighborhood association road street majority of which voted to support this proposal. I'll go ahead and refer to the board this time. Thank you. Mayor? Yeah, thank you. Madam Ambassador. Madam Chair, members of the board. This is mine up for us. I have a consent from the department. I want to go on to the board of this. Question? Yes, I have to remind chairman of board cushions and only boss of our trust and we have both key card letters from the other. Thank you. Okay. Another one for something else. Any other questions from the board? Madam Chair, if I may, I leave a comment from the Councillor. I just deserve a little bit of response. I know that there is some conversation about the applicability that's me for which I believe is an important component for resiliency and resilient design in the city of Boston. And I think that part of the conversation when plenty of Boston was being discussed over the last four and a half years was to come up with an approach that was not unpredictable but recognizing important policy considerations for the city which included resilient design as well as affordability. So this project certainly has taken those issues into account and the design that we do have complies entirely with our 25A has been reviewed by the resiliency staff at the BPA and they are satisfied that we've met the requirements for design and resiliency cost project. Thank you. Questions from other questions from board? Hearing none, have a motion. A motion to approve continued beauty and design. Thank you. Mr. Stumbridge? Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Mr. Langham? Yes. Ms. Weow? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Ms. Pinato? Yes. Chair votes, yes, the motion carries. Thank you very much for a great day. Thank you. Thank you very much. Madam Chair at this point, I'll call for a 16A. So we're trying to case B08135. Is that what M. Builders is? Yes. Mr. Williams-Hamp? I believe so. Yes. Mr. No? Mr. Rita? Yes. Hello? Hold on. Case B08135. 3108. With the address of 6 Dana Avenue, if the applicant enter the representor, does it? Yes. Please explore. Yes. So, you know what's happening with some difficulties? And he wanted to know if he could rescind you for the post-pum hearing? And what timeframe is he looking for? Anytime. Anytime. Okay. Yeah. Caroline. Never came for it. Never came for it. Does that work for builders? Yes. September 4th. Correct. 1, 24. Okay. I'll wait for time. Well, this one. 9 o'clock. I'm sorry. I don't love that already. 11.30. Thanks. So, may I have motion? Motion to refer to September 24th. Is there a second? Okay. Mr. Stemperch? Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Mr. Langham? Yes, ma'am. Is we all? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Mr. Pnato? Yes. Share votes. Yes. The motion carries. See you then. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. They. They. We've already deferred their case. I'll correct that. I'll just move on to that. So that will stop one, that one, there. It was Case B, 116-2-1, Okay. Okay. Okay. Can you send it a question? Okay. Can you give it? Yes. Yes, we can. All right. Great. So I'm here with Kristen. So we are the current owners of 2224 tiles per street. And I guess we are asking for the leave on three variances. I guess if you could school a little quick. So the variances that we are asking the leave for is the side yard. So the next official yard space, the excess of height and the four-year ratio. So currently we are currently 4.5 feet from home street and then 7.2 feet from our house. So we are planning to do that. So the current measurements are going to say the same. For the story side, it's currently 2.5 stories. And we are proposing three stories. The donors will increase on the height on the third floor, adding more headspace on the sides. And then for the last period of the floor area ratio, we are currently at a ratio of 0.46 at 2,300 square feet. And we are proposing a ratio of 0.79 to 3,900 square feet. So this building is currently a two-family building. I guess we are paying to keep it as a two-family building. What we're trying to do is add some living space in the basement and add that to the first floor. And also add a living space from the attic, which would be part of the second floor. So 22 tiles broke would be the first floor in basement. And then unit 24 will be the second floor in the attic. These are currently four plans of the starting from the bottom. The right side is what is there currently. All there is now is just on first basement. And there's nothing down there right now. We are trying to add two bedrooms, and then also a bathroom and a failure down there. And on the bottom, my corner would be stairs down from the first floor. Questions from the board? Here in NUNC, can I put the customer in? I'm Chair and members of the board. My name is Evan Jones representing the mayor's office to neighborhood services. Regarding 22 to 24 tiles, we're on the street. Our office will defer to the board's judgment on this matter. A community process was conducted, including on a butters meeting on 722, which was attended by one constituent. The primary feedback of this meeting was that she thought the plans were a great use of space without changing the footprint. Additionally, the applicant connected with Pope's Hill neighborhood association, which did not show any concern. I'm meeting with the applicant and likewise did not provide a letter of support or opposition. At this time, the mayor's office to neighborhood services differed to the board's decision. Thank you for your time and consideration. Thank you. Hello. Madam Chair, members of the board, Lee and Ray Miss from Council Fitzgerald's office. Our office is like going to record support this proposal. Thank you. Thank you. We have the other hand. Okay. Would that have a motion? Madam Chair, we don't have a recommendation from the planning department on this, but I'll put forward a motion of approval with designer here with special attention to the dormers, only because they're pretty wide taking up, like, almost the entire role plane. So perhaps a couple of those. Thank you, Mr. Second. Mr. Steinberg. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Is we well? Yes. Mr. Capollins. Yes. Is Panato? Yes. Chair votes. Yes, the motion carries. Next, three out of case, B-O-A, one, three, two, two, one, three, five, with the address of 25 Henry Street. It's the applicant and the representative's present. Please explain that avoid. If you are, because the proposal can be raised here. Joe Pazella. One second. Okay, please. Thank you. Okay, I just have to request that. Okay. And am I able to share my screen with you? No, you're not. Oh, just a minute is what you can refer to. Okay, I see. Okay. Can I begin? Yes, please. Thank you. We're seeking relief from the board to build a three family house on this existing vacant block on Henry Street. The house has two two bedroom units and one bedroom unit. And we've provided a three parking for three cars. If you scroll down a little bit. Another slide, please. Here you go. We've been through an expensive community process spanning years. And this is the result of the import from the community and community groups. The biggest concern was parking. We initially had a building that did not provide off screen parking. And we've got a lot of opposition based on that. So we redesigned the building and cut the first four unit and half to create a driveway that goes underneath the structure to backyard. Once we did that, presented, we heard some concerns about open space. So we redesigned the building again and we provided private decks for the units. In fact, it's up to debt. Talk to units get three decks each. And that's now the first one unit gets a single deck. Once again, back to the community and we heard concerns about trash and road control. So we provided storage for trash containers behind the building. And we will do road control, of course, throughout the construction project. And at the end, I believe we've come up with the design of works in this neighborhood, which is predominantly three family houses. We've got support for the majority of the neighborhood and we have unanimous support for meeting house hills, civic association. There are any questions for the board. I'm happy to answer. Thank you, sir. Questions from the board. Good morning, Madam Chair and members of the board. My name is Eva Jones. We're presenting the mayor's office and neighborhood services. Regarding 25-hundreds-free, our office will defer to the board's judgment on this matter. A community process was concluded, including on a butters meeting on 529, which was attended by several constituents. The meeting was not prepared. Heavy opposition, citing several concerns, including increased parking pressure on the community, insufficient setbacks on all sides of the property. The frustration that this application had been presented to them previously, which they opposed, but the applicant returned with two similar plans and were compromised with the community. The community also submitted a petition opposing the proposal signed by 36 community members. Additionally, the applicant was connected with Meeting House Hill Civic Association, which expressed approval to move this proposal to oppose, and no opposition or support was reached. Thank you. Thank you. I have no questions at the moment. Any other questions from the board? Would that be a motion? I'll put forward an motion of approval with the provisor that plans be submitted to planning for design or being with attention to considering, probably, able to start this for fricking in the driveway area. Is there a second? Okay. Mr. Stambridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Ms. Wewell. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Ms. Panato. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. The motion carries. Thank you very much. Next, we have case B.O.A. 1632-235. Is the address of 250 C for street? If the applicant and the representative is. Yes, Mr. Stambridge. So, good evening. Good afternoon, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Attorney Derek Small. I'm a business address of 51 Dops of Road, R&T Mass. And with me today, our e-book Army, who is the CEO and President of Commonwealth of the Antras. And we have our architect on Mike Fetch. Jessica, I don't know if they've been promoted to panelists, but we could. We can have- Definitely, Adam. I know. Thank you. So, Madam Chair, we're here today seeking relief to change the legal occupancy of the building at 250 C for street. And one thing we do outing to a lodging house for 16 lodgers. The zoning sub-district here is a MFR. And our lot size is approximately 10,000 square feet. And our sole violation with this project is we are seeking the conditional use permit. The use that we are seeking is a conditional use in the zoning sub-district. So, again, because I know it has come up in the past with regard to this project. We are seeking for a change of occupancy to a lodging house for 16 lodgers. And I stress that, Madam Chair, originally because we started out with 20. We went to 18. And that's when the application was applied for. So, the application does say 18. But through numerous community meetings, we agreed to go for 16 lodgers in the lodging house instead of the 18. Madam Chair, we are working very closely with MOA, MIRS Officer Housing. And they have issued us an acceleration certificate with regard to this project. And the project has gone through an extensive community engagement process. As we have had two two-bottles meetings. We have had two meetings with the Garrison Tribal Neighborhood Association. Two meetings with the Navy, Mazing Street Residence, and two with Sonoma Maple Skylar. I could turn it over to Mike Finch if there are any questions with regard to the plans. But again, we are seeking a change of views to the lodging house for 16 lodgers. But we can open it up there if any questions that folks may have. Yeah, I mean, I'll just start off with an invention meeting with the neighborhood groups. And so we have received a number of comments and letters in opposition from some of those neighborhood groups. Can you kind of speak to what has unfolded from those meetings and what you talked about, compromise, etc. Just elaborate a little bit. Sure. So I think originally, again, we started out at 20. When the application was applied for, we applied at 18. Since it was 18, we have had several meetings with folks in the community with regard to trying to compromise us to what would work for folks in the community and what would come off land trust. And we were in the impression that we had an agreement or at 16. And so I think a lot of folks's consternation goes around the notification with stressed 18 lodgers. And again, we are reducing that to 16 lodgers. Okay. Other questions from the board? Yes, I have two small questions. One of my questions, one of my questions is, I know about CVS streets. I know it's no parking on CVS streets. So that's going to be a problem. And my second issue, what's going to go on with that house? I'm going to knock that house down on what are we going to do with that house? I'll turn over to Mike. Mike, if you want to talk about the parking and the rear. And talk about what's going on in terms of the renovations with regard to the existing property. Sure. As far as the site goes, part of our discussions with the abutters and with the neighborhood was about parking. So there is an existing garage and driveway that's accessed at the rear of the property. As you said, look at here at Planned North and that's accessed off of the amazing street at the rear of the property. We are actually going to rehab the garage so we can fully utilize the two spaces within the garage. And additionally, we are also proposing two spaces as you look at the plan here to the right of the garage. And those have been shown on a site plan which has already been submitted to the Boston Water and Tour Commission. Additionally, the existing house is going to remain. We're not adding on to the building and we're not demolishing any portion of the building. As you can see from the site plan here, we are adding a new ramp for accessibility up to an existing side entrance on the left hand side of the building. And then additionally, there is three watching house bedrooms that are being proposed for the lower level. We have the rear of the building and the right hand side there are three small basement or emergency rest window wells. Otherwise, the exterior renovations include sort of general renovation rehabilitation. There's a lot of existing ornamental architectural detail that will be renovated and rehabilitated replacing windows, doors. But otherwise, no change to the footprint or size of the building. Thank you. Can you speak a little bit so that your clients sort of experience track record operating, watching house a little bit about the management of the building? Sure. Even if you want to take that, you know. I can take that. Thank you so much for this opportunity. I do have a couple of slides. I don't know if you will be acceptable to show those, but you can share your experience with me. Okay, that's okay. So we're not profit that was founded in 1985. And so we are a developer and a property manager and a service provider in one. We have multiple properties in the greater Boston area, including properties similar to Seva Street. So later store current development, another current development we have is at 570 Warn Street, which is currently in construction. With when we are investing together with the state and the city into the rehab of the property, we're proposing to do the same with with Seva Street. So what in addition to development, we have our own property management team that's in house. So we provide the maintenance, no removal, all of that. We have case managers that work for us and they usually on site, so depending on the needs of the residents, since these are low income individuals, we tailor some services to them. This is permanent housing as opposed to what is currently happening at the property. So they're currently over 20 residents and it's a sober house and there's no fixed limit on how many individuals can live there. Again, we're seeking this number is going down to 16 and it will be permanent housing as opposed to transitional. And so we'll have fallside services and we are working on securing over 3 million to invest in the property so it can be preserved and remain unasset for the community. Thank you. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? I just want to know, because I know how Seva Street is, why will it be a sober house? I just need somebody to explain that to them. We're not a sober house. It is currently a sober house and we're proposing to convert it to permanent housing. Okay, I got one more question for attorney Derek Small. Okay, you can be a definition of a live in-house then. My definition? Yes sir. I think a sober house is where you have a live in-house. He wants the definition of a live in-house. Permanent housing for individuals, not in that shared living space, shared common bathrooms, shared common kitchen, common utilities, as opposed to a sober house. Okay, thank you. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Hearing none is there a motion? I'll make a motion to approve with a designer view. Second. Second, thank you. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Vonsio? Yes. Mr. Lano. Mr. Lano? Yes. Ms. Wewell. Yes. Mr. Collins. Sorry, yes. Ms. Pinato. Yes. Chair votes yes. The motion carries. Thank you Madam Chair. Mr. Moore, I'll get that. Thank you. Thank you so much. Thank you. I guess I can't say anything. Well, I guess I can't say anything. Oh, can we talk about it? Sorry. Let's back up. My apologies. Can we have public testimony? Madam Chair, members of the board, Conor Newman with the Mayor's Office of the Neighborhood Services. The Mayor is obviously deferred to the judgment of this board. As you heard from the Outings Representation, our office conducted two of butters meetings. The first of which was on May 22nd, the second of which was on June 24th. During that community process, we had to make sure that opinions, those in support, cited the track record of the proponent and the quality of work they've done with other homes. They secured another support from wind properties, which owns properties nearby. Those in opposition express concerns with the proposed density, as well as concerns related to the quality of life for other neighboring residents, and the amount of cars and parking that will potentially impact on street parking for the rest of the community. They applicant met with the Garrison Trotter and Interim Association, which was opposed to the occupancy of 18. However, they said they'd be supportive of a 12-tamin occupancy. Without information, we also received one letter in opposition as well, a citing concerns related to parking. I would battle the front of the board this time. Thank you. Thank you. No other? Where's office? Thank you. Good afternoon, everyone. My name is Nora Lutz. I'm a development officer with the Mayors Office of Housing. We understand that the developer has met with local community groups and has just a proposal based on the feedback they have received. M-O-H's supportive of this project, which will permanently restrict these units as affordable housing. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Is there? Good day. I'm on the chair if I may. On behalf of the Nazine Street Neighborhood Association. Good. So, who minutes real quick? And we have had extensive conversation. Board Member Langham, I appreciate the questions that you raised. Derek Smell answered most of them. The one question that we never got answered was your last question. Who's really going to be in them? And they still never answered. They do have supportive systems in there and a manager. We had extensive conversations that were some confusion. Derek Smell said over the 18 number of units there. We met again last night. We got opposition letters because we didn't see that they had gone down to 16. We talked with Garrison Trotter last night. We talked about the issue of the public health care and the public health care. Roy Thompson, their real estate committee chair. And so we are withdrawn on our position. We hope that we can be the kind of neighborhood with them that they have proposed to be. They said they make some improvements. I live right next door to that house. We are very familiar with the city of St. Louis. They said they are going to be a good neighbor. We do a lot of toeing. We hope that we will trust coming in. We can be a better neighbor with a group that is still right now. We will throw our opposition. I just talked to the president. He couldn't get on. We will throw our opposition with the 46 units. We hope that everything works out in a good neighborly way. We have worked hard in this community. We played the drug. All the drug dealing that was gone on. There were shooting murders. It's a really good street in the back. Amazing. We have come a long way. And so we hope that this Commonwealth Trust we can continue to build on a good, strong community neighborhood. That's why we started the Amazing Street neighborhood association. We can continue to move the neighborhood in a positive direction. Thank you so much for giving me this time. Thank you, sir. Thank you for the reminder. I appreciate it. I think? Yes. Good afternoon, everyone. We, as I think past the core pepper just said, our initial opposition had to do with numbers. Now that it's clear that it has been moved to sustain neighborhood, the Amazing Street neighborhood association, support Commonwealth Trust proposal to have a change in our occupancy requirement. We're now opposed to it as long as the system we're definitely defined. I think core pepper said it by well that it's a neighborhood that was devastated for many years. And we have actually worked quite a bit in the last 10 years to re-votify that street. And so we are hoping that Commonwealth Land Trust comes in as an amazing many of the community help us continue that building process. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Again, we are committed to continuing to work with the groups in the area with regard to the core policy. Thank you. Any other way, stands? Okay, hearing none, may I have a motion? All right, now make a motion to approve a logic house for 16 lodgers with design review. May I have a second? Back at Mr. Stembridge. Yeah. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Mr. Brown. Yes. Chair votes yes. The motion carries. Good luck. Good luck. Mr. Langham. Sure. Okay, Mr. Mizuiwou. Yes. Mr. Collin. Yes. Mr. Bado. Yes. Chair votes yes. The motion carries. Good luck. Good luck again, Mr. Chairman. This is what every day. Madam Chair, just one thing we hope that they don't cut back on the original design and the plan to roll that they said they were going to do. And they first proposed 20 units. We hope it's the same design that they don't cut. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. And that's the point. And with that, we move on to case B-O-A. 1601715 with the address of 32 conference street. It's the applicant and or their representative president. They're pleased to like to reward them. Can you say it is raised and I am an elevator to a panelist. Can you just say I can't do it? I will. As a peer. Yes sir. Great. Thank you for the time. This afternoon we are requesting to defer this discussion. We have a companion case at 30 on curd. We are going to have the deferral set up to go with the arch-a-painting case on September 10 at 11.30 a.m. That's settled meeting. They'll just want to give the verbal update on that. I see. Okay. So just confirming Caroline is this going to be part of that companion case you just mentioned? Yes sir. Okay. So we have a motion to defer. I make a motion to defer to September 10. Yes ma'am. The second. Thank you. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Ms. We will. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Ms. Pinato. Yes. Chair votes yes motion carries. We'll see you then. Thank you everyone. All right. Thank you everyone and enjoy the rest of your August. See you in September. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.