 Good morning. The Board of Appeals for Tuesday, October 31st is now in session. Just a reminder, please turn off your cell phones because if you have a need to have a conversation, please take it outside of the room. It's very difficult for us to hear the applicants up at the table. In conformance with the Open Meeting Law, this is just a reminder that this meeting is being live streamed and will be available online afterwards. I see some new faces here, so if you're here to speak either in support or in opposition to a project, we're actually here on a fact-finding mission. So give us new information if somebody has already stated your concern. Put your name and address on the record and let somebody else come up to give us new information. Mr. Fortune. Good morning, Madam Chair. The first order of business will be the approval minutes of September 21st and October 17th meetings. Motion to approve. Just a question, a query to Mr. Fitzgerald. Does this include the summaries of the Thursday meetings? It does. Is there a second? Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. I'm going to first case for extension calling BCC319864 powers court. Name and address for the record, please. Good morning. Mr. Sethanoff, 93F Street. Good morning. Thank you for hearing me. I come before you to ask for an extension on a board of appeal decision. This project started this summer within the window of the Board of Appeals approval. Apparently, unbeknownst to me, the permit is only good for six months. This ISD tells me now. ISD asked me to come back and ask for a new extension. And also to reapply for a new permit, which I've done linking it to the old permit. As you can see in the packages, they granted us a permit. We started construction. We recently have complete with the project and they put a stop work order on us. The owners are here with me. My building is exposed and open to the elements as we made it as tight as we could. It's. I'm confused. I feel the following reason. I have a building permit. I have a building permit back. You know, the leases were zoning. Right. You could comply within the time. ISD issued the permit to the contractor in July. And they changed the name to the new contractor. They didn't change the date. And they asked for an extension. They said we didn't need it. We started construction. And then somebody complained. And they looked at it. And they said, well, this permit's out of time. It's. So why do you need relief from us? ISD asked me to come to you. I mean, isn't it? They want me to reapply, get a new permit. And link it now, of course, and beyond the August 28th date, which was the deadline or the termination of the year extension you gave me last time. So I've reapplied. So when did you get your building permit? In July. In July, and it's valid for how many months? Well, it's supposed to be good. Well, now, the initial permit was issued in two. The initial permit was issued to a different contractor back in 2015. It's in the back of the package there. So it was issued in 2015. And so it's so an essence. I thought it was good for two years. And then they come back and tell me it's good for six months. What are the old names? They changed the name. They didn't change the date. So I'm taking direction from Kim. Ty. Is it simply a minor administrator matter? They have all. We granted you zoning work. Yes. You came from Accenture. Yes. And within that extended period, we started a painting of building permit in your side. Yes. And my incentive of building permit is good until you can bring it. 17. I thought so too. But then they've pulled it. They put a stop work order on me. But what's the basis for a stop work order? They said the permit is expired. But as far as we are concerned, it's still zoning compliant. So that's why is it here then? The relief hasn't changed, correct? Right. No, there's no change in the project. So then, can I just get something to say that maybe the approval of this continued? I mean, I see it's all new administration. So I think I'm still stuck on why this couldn't have been dealt with on an administrative level at IOC. I did. I sat. We had a meeting with all the staff. Because we're put in an awkward situation because as you know, the permit expired August 28th. So it's expired appeal as far as we are concerned. So. Madam Chair, if I don't know if I just clarify. I don't know if anybody saw this. Kim Tite says the permit is only good for six months that they reissue the permit in order to do that. They want to look at the drawing set again and have haven't go back to the board final to Abedder to extend the decision. So, a recent minute of the original package back to ISD, they want me to get a new permit. So, which I've went to the other. So I guess we're confused because we don't give permits here. No, I know that. We give relief. I understand. Right? So it's my understanding, and Matt, help me with this a little bit that we gave you relief. Our relief goes to ISD. What they do with it from there is on their terms. So it seems to me that we're getting pushed in, and Anthony, you can help me with this, we're getting pushed in. All we can do is approve the relief, which is what we've done. Okay. So I don't know what you're expecting us to do or what we want us to do. What they've asked me is to get an extension on the current relief. No, if I may, I think we suffer a little bit because in the past we actually had, in a case like this, a representative from ISD would sit here. So that way we could get into a discussion and all parties to be represented. And it seemed to me that I'm not in favor of granting zoning relief for this majority happen. But at the same time, if there's a mechanism that we will allow it to continue. They were aware of here today. I mean, that's... Well, the thing is, why is the project shuttle to us when we have no povue on the building permit end of things? That is purely an ISD function because the permit was initially issued with the zoning in place. So what happens at ISD to remedy this situation should happen at ISD? I do have another question. If I may. I do have another question. What is your expectation of us to do? Well, what would be ideal would be that the relief is continued. Okay, hold on. The relief is in place. There's still not a question. I'll make a motion to refer this matter to ISD. Sorry to put your no-round on about, but all those in favor? Hi. Any opposed? Okay. Thank you. Calling the next case. Calling B-O-A-505714. 15 Commonwealth Avenue. Name and address. Fuller, I could please. My name is Eugene Kelly. Turning Eugene Kelly, 223 Commonwealth Avenue in Boston. So this was a renovation of an existing back-bait townhouse, a double townhouse that has been ongoing now for a number of years, being put into a single family home. The owner, we want to build, and we were granted relief to build a wall taller than six feet to enclose the garden area in the back. Yes, I think we remember this case. And so the issue is that the construction is still ongoing, and we need to keep the back open until we finish the construction. So I'm looking for a one-year extension. And what I had done is we had gone to, as it requires, back-bait architectural permission review for design. We did go to them. We got a design approved, but it expired after a year. So I have to have ZBA approval in place in order to go back to the BDAC again for a big emotion for one-year extension. Exactly. All those in favor? All right. Any opposed? Zero, set. Thank you very much. Calling the next case. B-ZC-33082, 2717-2719, Washington Street. Okay. Name an address for the record police. We want Allen, the 85 Richardson Avenue and out of our warehouse. Please tell us why you're here. I requested another extension to be granted. Okay. How many extensions have you had? This would be the second one. Tell us why you need this. Well, it's a long story, but basically financial hardship was one. And then finally, when everything was all set, monies in place, they went out to do the plans and everything. I went to buy all it at 1010 Mass App last Monday, and they said it was too late for my plans to be reviewed. So when did the poem expire? 2016. 2016. 2016, I want to say. October 26, 2016. Yeah, I was. I didn't know that it's like a... Okay. Why not? We cannot approve this as an extension because it's already expired. We could extend it if it's still valid, but it's not valid anymore. Pretty one me, so. Okay. So I... She did request Madam Chair, October 20th of this year. Yeah. October 20th of this year, but the poem it expired, the relief expired in 2016. When did the relief expire? 2016. Yeah, so I'm sorry. March of 2019. March of 2019. Is there a second? Second. All those in favor? Aye. Aye. Any opposed? Sorry. Just...you have to. Sadly go to the process again. Okay. Following the next case, calling BOA44361933Q. Kirkwood Road. I'm going to hold on to that to the next case. Calling an XKG card. BOA7491642628 Newbury Street. This is...this is a renovation to an existing Cadiere store basement through the fourth with a new groundwater recharge system and minor exterior work. Violation, statistical 32, section 32 dash 4, groundwater conservation, overlay applicability. Name and address. Fuller, I could please. I'm going to address quality attorney, maternal, and maternal, and Miller representing the applicant with me is John Schmidt from Niche Engineering and Julie Raker from Dancer Architects's in the room as well. Good morning. Good morning. We have been in communication with the trust. We have the no harm letter from Mr. Schmidt from Niche, as well as the plan staff by Boston Water and Solar. Okay. Do we have that in the record? No, we do not. Christian, please. Morning, Madam Chairman, Mr. Boett, Christian, Seminelli, Boston, groundwater Trust. We have the approval letter from Water and Solar and the no harm letter from the applicant as well. Can you have a motion, please? Motion for approval. Dr. Sting. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? You're all set. Good luck. If we can get a copy of that letter for the record. Yep. Following the next case, a building code. Calling BOA747484. 1435 to 1437 Turmon Street. This was, this is building code. Section 301.1. This is chapter. She'll govern the approval and installation of all equipment and appliance at the comprised parts of the building mechanical systems regulated by, regulated by this code. This is access for maintenance and replacement. Appliances shall be accessible for inspection, service, repair, replacement without disabling the function of a fire resistance rating assembly or removing a permanent structure, other appliances, venting systems, or any other piping or ducts not connected to an appliance, being inspected, serviced, or repaired or replaced. Name and address for the record please. Adrian Wong. 1435-1437 Turmon Street. Is there an appeal related to this or is it just purely building code relief? It's purely building code related to Michael Leven. It's too much. It originally approved this project back in November 24th of 2015. Correct. So what does that have? Correct. So when we, when we resummit, had the plan with you. He's telling us in Mr. Pazani what, what was the relief for Mr. Wong? It was for the variance for the usage of the basement. So this is for basement use? Correct. The original relief was for the basement use. When we went to ISD to see for the plan revered to review the plans again, he saw that there was an electrical room which is basically the mechanical room in our basement that he thought is that these, we have three units above us for tenant use in our, above our storefront that the electrical room, the tenants don't have access to it. And we were saying that we occupied the space after the building was built after an electrical room, but they have, each tenant has their own subpanels and water meters that they have access to already. So the tenants don't need to go to the basement. However, it's accessible for inspection and accessible for everything else. And what's the use in the basement again? Basement is the kitchen prep and then there's just like an employee lounge. That's it. And then there's an electrical room that's inside the basement too. Okay. And the electrical room is for the total building. Not just your... No, it's basically the power, total power shut off. And then our, our, our, our, our fuse box and then the, the sprinkler system. That's all they have in there. And who are you? You representing the building on the business? No, I'm, under the business, under the owner of the business. So I, when I came in, I was just occupying the space. Because it was the owner of the building. Because it sounds like the responsibility for this belongs to the owner and not to you as a tenant. Correct. To, for this relief. And I, I mean, I, I'm not sure if they, the planner review is reviewing my building only. I mean, my plans for the store. That's what he was trying to review. So I'm not sure if he didn't review like the, the building of the existing building when he was built. He didn't pull the plans for it. My, my essentially, my, I'm just only aware that what I'm building for my building. And what he's supposed to be reviewing for my building only. What is the stage of the approach right now? So we've already been completed. We were granted by ISD, a temporary CICO, to continue operations. We've been, because of due to the November appeal, we were looking thinking that that was the only thing that we needed a, a relief for. And then so they allowed us to have a temporary CICO. And so we've been operating for, since then, and. So he's going to work out for two years now. Correct, sir. And we have inspections come in. I can have an operator for two years. Why did this now come up? Well, you had a CICO. Correct, correct. So when we went to the CICO and when we got the, when we got the variance, we were under assumption that this variance will allow us, will be the, the only thing that the plan reviewer was finding at fault. And so when we went back to the plan reviewer, they went and said, well, there's something wrong. And we didn't know why, where's, what, what, what the issue was, the other issue. So then what happened after that is when we went back to the ISD, they took the ZBA plans and they chucked the original plans. So we went back to, going back to finding out, kind of, and we went through, through a few months, just trying to go through that. Okay, let's, how about this? Maybe we can defer this to the next meeting so that we could have the time to unpack it a little bit. Yes, go ahead. Who is the building owner? Savage properties. And why are they not involved with this? Well, the only assumption for this is more for this building co-valuation from my store front. And I was, the issue is access from the other four. Do you have the door over there? Correct, correct. I was, I'm not, I don't understand why I see the plan reviewer is saying, hey, this is your issue. It sounds like it's the building owner's issue that something has happened that has, has, in essence, impacted you. So we need to see the building owner here because they need to find a resolution for this or explain why there's no resolution. So, I'm sorry. So may I have a motion for this for the plural? No, no, the first. Second. All those in favor? Hi. Any opposed? And in the meantime, can you make sure to be in touch with the property owner so that we can get, do you need a site visit Mr. Pazani or? And would there be useful, yes, two members of the board should go and get one. And for the record, his operation has been shut down for a period of time. Oh, I'm sorry about that, but we definitely need the property owner here. Okay? So let's get a date. You have a date of December 12th. Okay, can we do it first now? Next meeting. Oh, how about the meeting after that because we need two members to do a site visit? No, no. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. November 28th at 11.30. Okay. And do I need to after that the next year and bring the property owner for this year? And the 28 meeting, yes, please have the property owner. And some of the on board who can explain why you need this relief and why there's no way for the building owner to deal with it in another way. Also, we should set up the time to go take a look at it. So if you could bring here contact information with information on the, okay. One month or so. Okay. We'll be fine. We'll call. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. We'll call in the 930 cases. Are there any deferrals or withdrawals for 930? We'll call in the 930 cases. We'll call in the 930 cases. We'll call in the 930 cases. We'll call in the 930 cases. We'll call in the 930 cases. We'll call in the 930 cases. We'll call in the 930 cases. We'll call in the 930 cases. We'll call in the 930 cases. We'll call in the 930 cases. We'll call in the 930 cases. We'll call in the 930 cases. We'll call in the 930 cases. We'll call in the 930 cases. We'll call in the 930 cases. We'll call in the 930 cases. We'll call in the 930 cases. We'll call in the 930 cases. We'll call in the 930 cases. We'll call in the 930 cases. We'll call in the 930 cases. We'll call in the 930 cases. We'll call in the 930 cases. We'll call in the 930 cases. We'll call in the 930 cases. We'll call in the 930 cases. We'll call in the 930 cases. We'll call in the 930 cases. We'll call in the 930 cases. We'll call in the 930 cases. We'll call in the 930 cases. We'll call in the 930 cases. We'll call in the 930 cases. We'll call in the 930 cases. We'll call in the 930 cases. We'll call in the 930 cases. We'll call in the 930 cases. We'll call in the 930 cases. We'll call in the 930 cases. We'll call in the 930 cases. The building height is excessive, number of stories. Article 67, section 12. The side yacht is insufficient. And Article 67, section 12. The rear yacht is insufficient. Name and address for the record, please. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. Attorney Nick Zazula, McDermick Quilty and Miller. 28th State Street, Suite 802 in Boston. With me to my immediate left is Lucio Chabuco, who's the project architect. To my far left is Christos Cortitas, who is the longtime property owner of 878 South Street. We've fraudged to the board today a hearing memorandum detailing the project summary community outreach modifications to both the design and the building programming as a result of extensive community comment and positive outreach with the community on the project. The property is located on South Street, at the corner of South Street and Walter Street. It's right outside of Rosendale Village. It's been in Christos' family for about 30 years. He's a longtime property owner in the neighborhood. The law is, it's an interesting law. It's about 7,500 square feet. It has two buildings on it, an existing non-descript single story, cement block commercial building with four units at the street side. And a two story, rear residential, two family building at the back of the lot. So there are two buildings on the law currently. And there's a great change, a topographic change of about six feet from the street side to the rear side. It's a narrow lot as well. So that has caused some issues with citing a new and improved building on the property. And what we're seeking is to revitalize this as I just described, this kind of underutilized and non-conforming property and two buildings on the property, removing and replacing those buildings, and putting in a appropriately designed multi-family residential building of nine units in 11 parking spaces. And this is an MFR, what is the zoning here? No, we are actually, Madam Chair, we are. We are actually in a local convenience sub district, all this, this and tie. This is actually a five property, local convenience sub district. There are five properties in it. The rest of the area is surrounded by a 2,000. This is, and these are the two, what's going to happen to those tenants in that building? Well, there's only one commercial tenant in the building. I believe it's a barber shop, correct? And I believe that they, at the understanding with that tenant is that that gentleman is going to retire at the end of this process. He was looking to retire and this is kind of a, this just makes sense on the timing front. As far as the residential tenants, I believe their leases will be up before this is constructed. They are tenants at will. So this is directly across the street from green tea, right? Correct, correct. And it does not include that frontage with the old Chinese restaurant. It does not include that. No, that is to the right of the property if you're looking at it. Do you own those parcels? Okay. Okay, so please go ahead. We've been involved with a very productive community process for about two years. Sure. Can you please go to the violations? Tell us what is required and what you're proposing. Yes, ma'am. So we've been cited for seven violations. In fact, one of the violations, the rear yard violation has been now removed. We are now compliant with that rear yard violation due to the reduction in off street parking and pulling the building back from the rear. The rear setback is 20 feet. We are now at 23 feet, nine inches. So that one of those violations has been removed. The rest of the violations for the most part are, they are existing non-conformities. The buildings on the property are non-conforming. The multi-family dwelling we were cited for a conditional use permit because of the location and the local convenience sub-district. The residential use on the first floor is conditional. However, as discussed as detailed previously, there is a non-conforming residential use on the rear of the property on the first floor. So please tell us about the new proposal. So what is the proposed FAR? The proposed zoning required. The proposed FAR is approximately 1.44. The requirement is 0.5. The buildings on the property now are non-conforming to FAR. They are not at 1.44, but they are over 0.5. As far as the building height, we are compliant with the footage of the building height, but we are not compliant with the stories. It's two and a half story, three stories. Three stories above a sort of entry. The parking is because of the grade change. The parking is technically below ground, although it's open air parking. So we have three stories and required is two and a half stories, but we are under the 35 foot height requirement. As far as the side yard, the 10 foot is required. We are compliant on the right side at 12 feet, six inches. However, that's where the driveway in the existing curb cut is. There is an existing curb cut, which we will be utilizing. On the left side, we are non-compliant. We are four feet, three inches. So we are... And that's about the other residential building. Yes, ma'am. Yep. As far as the rear yard, again, we are compliant with that. And finally, in terms of the off-street parking, 18 spaces would be required for nine units. However, as part of the extensive community process, we actually had a development to have 18 spaces. And as part of a lot of the discussion on the project, that was just too much. It's not needed. We're less than about a quarter mile from the Ross and Dale Village commuter rail station. We are also within walking distance of numerous bus stops on Walter and Washington streets. And we are actually going to have an internal bike rack for 14 bicycle spaces. But tell us how many parking spaces you're providing? 11. So there's nine units. We're providing 11 spaces, which is more than one to one parking. Eight of the units are two bedrooms. And one of the units is a one-bedroom. Tell us what the unit breakdowns are. Eight two bedrooms. And the square footage. 980 square feet. And the one-bedroom is approximately 780 square feet. So there will be one to one parking plus two extra spaces as needed. How are the plans, Mr. Pazani? Longer at work. Any questions from the boy? The parking there's one nine underneath. And then two. All the parking is on site to the rear of the lot. They're all on site. Some of them are covered and some of them are not. Is that correct? Because of the gray change, some of them are covered and some of them are not. How many are seven? Four parking spaces uncovered. Uncovered. Seven. It's open. There's no garage door or anything. But the rear four spots are open. And then behind the rear spots is there's open space. Trees, landscaping, that will be kind of a pocket park for the residents to enjoy to the rear with some benches and providing them some private open space. So that's that the pocket park is just for the residential use, for the residents. On the property. Yeah. On the property to the rear. There are several small little pocket parks in front of the property which are not located on this property. We've been in again good discussions with the kids. I mean, we just need to hear about the merits of the case. Correct. Whatever else happens happen. Correct. Is anybody, any other question to my board? Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? I'm Mark Madam Chair, members of the board, Dan and Mark from the Mayor's Office of the Neighborhood Services. I'd like to go on record of support. We'll continue BPDA design review as far as the process is concerned. The G's gentleman are correct in saying that it's been extensive and throughout that process they have worked to garner support from not only the local civic association and in addition to lots of area residents. Thank you. I'm Mark Madam Chair, members of the board, Walter App White Council of McCarthy's Office. We'd like to echo the sentiment of the mayor's office and go on record of support. Second morning members, the board. My name is Matt Lawler. I'm a resident of 15 Basso Terrace in Rosendale. It's about two blocks from the project site. Speaking in support and speaking both on my own behalf and on behalf of Walkup Rosendale. I believe Walkup Rosendale submitted a letter. A revised letter of support for the project on October 26th, which hopefully is on the file. I would just point you to two sort of conditions or comments that the letter made with respect to the revised project that we really appreciate. The revisions that the proponent made as part of the community process. One was a suggestion that in support of active mobility, that the project consider contributing toward the HUBWA expansion that's planned for Rosendale for the next two years. We appreciate the bicycle parking proposal, but also wondering if they would be willing to commit to assist HUBWA. Second, with respect to the pocket park that's in front of the project, there's been discussion about maintenance of that pocket park. We also would like them to consider bicycle parking in that pocket park. If you know the area at all, there is a very active coffee shop across the street. There is currently no bicycle parking in the vicinity. We would like them to consider contributing a bike wreck to that park. And then finally, with respect to design review, we appreciate that it will be subject to BP-D design review. But we'd like to make sure that that's continuing robust discussion, especially with respect to the entrance to the project at the ground level. Thank you. Does anybody here to speak in opposition? Please put your name and address on the record, please. My name is Roola Giannos. I live next to our 880 South Street in Rosendale. I directly, I own the building property directly next to this proposed building. Is this the one that has the four feet separation between you or are you on the other side? I believe this is the, I'm to the right, closer to the change of the park. That's the right, okay? So if you're looking from the street level, where the building directs to the right directly in the back of the pocket park. Okay, and what is the use of that building? It's a three family residential union. Okay, and that has, that the distance between this proposal and that building is then 10 feet. 12 and a half feet, yes ma'am. Okay. So my concern is with parking in the neighborhood. I believe this is going to take away from parking in the neighborhood, which is already tight. And I have trouble every night that I get home, if I get home late, to fine parking. And also, I'm just afraid of what it's going to do to my building. You know, my tenants, their quality of life while this construction is going on. Thank you. Anybody else speak in opposition? Do I have a motion, please? Motion for approval with continuing BPGA design review with particular attention given to the tenants. All goes in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Thank you very much. I'm a Ross Mill resident, so I'm going to be watching this very closely. Following the next two cases, calling BOA 754-375-54 to 54B Williams Avenue. This is for 54-54B. Constructing new two-family dwelling on existing 25,276 square foot lot. This will be one of two dwellings located on the same lot. Violation, Article 8, Section 7. Two families forbidding in a 1F6000 subdistrict. Article 68, Section 31. Screening and buffering. None is proposed. Article 69. Section 29. Section 29. Section 29. Section 29. Section 29. Section 29. Section 29. Section 29. Parking in a front yard is not allowed. Article 69, Section 30. Two or more dwellings on one lot. A building may not be proposed to the rear of another main building within the subdistrict. This is for 56-56A Williams. This is a construct a new two-family dwelling on an existing 25,276 square foot lot. This will be one of two dwellings on the same lot. The violation, Article 8, Section 8. Forbidden youth. Article 69, Section 29. Point 4. No parking allowed. And it required front yard. Article 69, Section 30. A structure behind another main structure is not allowed within the subdistrict. Article 69, Section 37. Screening and buffering. None is proposed. Article 69, Section 9. Inspeficient radio ad setback. Article 69. Inspeficient law frontage width. And Article 69, Section 9. A number of allowed stories has been exceeded. Name and address for the record please. Good morning. Madam Chair, members of the board. Attorney John Pogini, ten clubs, road, branch, and mass. With me this morning is Tom McElroy. He's the owner and developer of this property. Toss was being proposed. Sure. This is an existing plighted house that has been sitting vacant for over 12 years. It's located on Williams Ave in Hy Park. It's diagonally across from the Boston Police Academy, in between police academy and Truman Highway. The proposal here today is to raise that building. It's a very large lot. The lot is 25,443 square feet. Unfortunately, the lot is shaped like a T. So, you know, through the community process we went through the whole thing about this. This has been up here several times before with much more aggressive density, eight units, six units. And we went through the community process and it's basically knocking this down and building two two unit townhouses on the property. These are a lot of violations. Can you please speak to them? I can. So, the use is forbidden because this is a 1F 6000. Yeah, initially it was, this was an existing four family. The zoning on this was a four to six family residential. However, that zoning had expired when they, because it was not being inused and it went to the 1F 6000 zone. With respect to a lot of frontage, the lot of frontage in the area is 60 feet required. The proposal is 83.7 for the entire lot. Front setback is 25, proposed is 25.7. Side setback is 10. Now, this is on the front unit. On one side it's four feet. Rear setback is 40. We have 99.9. High to 35 required two and a half stories. We have 34.5. And there's a finished attic, so it would be classified technically. It's a three story. Ope usable open space. 1800's required. We have 28.07. With respect to the back unit, you have, again, frontage 60 feet proposed 83.7. Front setback is 25 feet. This is 123.5 feet back from the street. Side setback is 10. We have proposed 47.7 square feet. We have setback is 40, 12.7. High is 35.2.5. This is 32.4 with three stories. A usable open space. 1800 and was proposed is 28.07. And tell us about the size of the units and what the breakdowns are. Each unit would be three bedroom, two baths on the second floor, one bath on the first floor. There's 1700 square feet and there's also a finished attic in the units. Okay. Looks like the side, the side slope. We have a pretty steep slope on there. And that was really the problem when we were going to this process. Initially, what we decided was, you know, we met with the elected officials. We had some met with the FAMOIL neighborhood association zoning subcommittee. We've gone to a pretty robust community process. And it was where we were going to place these. The people who lived in the back were the ones that were most impacted. And I know some of them are still opposed to it. Initially, the proposal was to have the two units sit on the back of the tee. And they didn't want that because they felt like it was encroaching upon them. So we put it behind. And even though it wasn't the best solution, because it was such a big lot and it was a unique shape lot, it was to move it down so that it wouldn't impact those properties in the area. How are the plans for Mr. Bessani? I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Any questions from the board? When you talk about the rear yard setback of the front of the 99 feet, that's not exactly the back right because you got a home on the building. That's how it's just broken out by that. So when I was talking about the back unit or the... Yeah, 12 feet. Yeah, so it's set back 25 feet and then 100 feet basically on top of that to the back side. That's just how it would zone off the first unit. Okay. To the back yet. Not to this house, but to the about ourselves because it's fun when you. The other question is, you know, we're not very keen on front yard parking. And I noticed us two proposed here. It is. Is there any other option? We put the... As you can see from the other units, we put the parking in the back. And you're talking about the one that affronts Williams Avenue. It's something we could work with through BPDA Design Review to see if we could move that parking to another area on the ground. Any other questions from the board? Does anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Brian Flynn, the Mayors Office of the Neighborhood Services. I want to go on the record and support of this proposal. I'm continuing upon BPDA Design Review. The site has been an ISOF for several years. In my brief tenure with Neighborhood Services, I've been to several meetings where people have bought something. And, you know, they want something to be done to it. I just want to go and record and support. Thank you. Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Laura Trapp, White Council, McCarthy's office. We'd also like to go on record and support. Thank you. Is anybody here to speak in opposition? People are here to speak in opposition. Please line up so we can be efficient. Name and address for the record. Good morning. My name is Joseph Smith. I'm a resident of 17 Albion Street and beautiful Femount Hill. I wish to talk to 56 Williams-Av. Yes, please give us bullet points as you can see. I'll do my best. I'll do my best. I'll do my best. 56 Williams-Av in you has, in fact, been empty for 12 years. The current owners have never lived in the property. The current owners do not live in the city. The current owners never... How does this matter to the appeals? Speak to the proposal, please. Is it... There's a lot of violations. Speak to the violations. Okay, I just wanted to give you... Well, first of all, let me give you a picture of the property. You can do that. Thank you. I really think it's important to the board that they get a little historical reference to a property that those of us who live in Femount Hill have been dealing with for 12 years. If the board is not interested in that, I'll move on to some other things. Yes. But we're really concerned about the fact that this property has been disrespected for 12 years. We each year have to call the city to come out and apply fines to this property because nothing has been done. Let me talk about the rules, too. In Hypoch, three and a half years ago, we revised the zoning code rules and regulations. And since then, we've been living by those and where your soldiers in the field, so to speak, being sure that people on abusing those kinds of rules and regulations. As you can see, many of the variances that you're looking at on this property are violative of the current rules and regulations for Hypoch. So we're just letting you know that we're an opposition to that, based on primarily a house behind a house, which was a foundational issue when we were reviewing the zoning code three and a half years ago in Hypoch. The owner and the lawyer for the lawyer, just yesterday we walked through the property and there was broken glass, there's boards with nails, there's trash. I mean, it's still an eye sore in a beautiful pot of the city. The lawyer and the owner have given neighbors who may say they want to see this plan occur only to alternatives. And the alternatives keep the beast and will give you beauty. We'll give you two new places that are in fact zoned and in fact, landscaped and look good. We have another alternative from the fam out hill neighborhood association that we've been trying to impose for many years, tear the bloody thing down, clean up the lot, and then stop over using the lot to erect something. So far I'm hearing that your opposition is based on two buildings on the same lot and the history of being a poor neighbor. Yes. Anything else? Well, there are, and the other variances, of course. And very serious. I mean, you know more about those other variances than I, you are the experts, I am not. But clearly, all of those variances that you cited at the beginning are caused for us to have concern and displeasure. And the physicality of the site has been the primary issue. Thank you. Yep. Thank you. The other people in line, please give us some new information. My name is Mary Delap and 50 Williams Ave. I've been a butter. The last 12 years we've had to deal with the drugs, the teenagers using it, the curry college kids using it. I appreciate your still concerned about the lack of names. Yes. Okay. I appreciate Mr. Polgini's new plan about bringing the two houses into the center, not to the side because when they were on the side, they were over towering over my house and towering over my neighbor's house. I would like to see one unit with two, one building with two units in it rather than two buildings. Our Williams Ave is the only street that cuts through the hill straight through to Milton. Fire Department ambulance use it very often to get to the highway, 138. Right now, we watch ambulances pull to the side trying to get through. So, car traffic is a big concern. Thank you. Thank you. My name is Carol Kempinelli. I'm 23 point street and high park. My property directly abuts the property of 56 Williams Ave. My concern, I'm not opposed to them building, but I am opposed to the number of units they want to build because my concern is my quality of life with the congestion and the noise. And Williams Ave right now has a lot of congestion going up and down the street as it is. And this is going to create more noise and more congestion. And these are three story, three bed from condos. And they're allowed two parking spaces. So, there's a lot of people that could classively live in here. And my concern is the noise and the density and the congestion that will bring to the neighborhood. And, you know, we have to live with this. The ambulance, they build and they move on. And if we allow this, it's going to happen in other areas. And, you know, I'm opposed to this. Thank you. Hello. My name is Paul Santos. I live on the upon street. I have budget on the back ends. And I too, I know you want to do bullet points. But I am, you know, we're opposed as, we're not opposed to building a building. We want to build a building built, but we don't want two units. We don't want one unit behind the other. We'd like to see it have one unit there. And also the way these plans are with these two big units, they're very, very large structures. They're very bigger than all the other houses in the area. So, what this is going to have is people are going to have, you know, their sunlight is going to be changed. And you're talking three floors much bigger than anything else there. And I too am worried about the condensed area. It's like a triangle there and that, those streets. So, it's just more congestion in that area. Thank you. Hi, Robert McKinnon. I'm on 12-pond street. You can see the structure across the street behind the building across the street. My concerns with the project, I actually do want to see something built there. But I think two structures of the size they're asking is a little too much for that space. Especially since you're going to have four units with multiple parking spaces needed. And they provide that some on the property. But they're going to need some more of the streets. And actually remove some street parking. I love on pond street, very little parking. And there's a house, the same situation, pork chop lot with a house behind the house across from me. And that butts up to that lot, which is going to be a house behind the house. It's going to be an awful lot of traffic going through narrow driveways with lack of parking on the street. So, that's kind of my thing. So, thank you. Those are my concerns. Okay, so, Councillor. These are the issues. I think you've heard them. Two buildings on the same lot. A lack of naveliness, the density and the size. Can you please just very quickly walk through some of the responses on that? Sure. The first with respect to the two buildings on the same lot. Again, as I touched on this in the beginning and some of the people who spoke in opposition to this, that was done for the consideration of the neighbors in the back. To bring them down, to center them on the lots, to the warning approaching on those two neighbors. And that was done through the community process. In addition to that, we also decided and it was on the subcommittee meeting, was to de-restrict land because it's such a long stretch of land between where the structure is in their houses. And de-restricted, so no structure could ever be built on that. So, that was proposed at that time. We thought everything was accepted. With respect to the size of these buildings, these buildings are not even closed. They're underneath the height requirement for that neighborhood, which is 35 feet. About half, stories? The only reason it's three stories, it's a finished attic. The height itself is under the 35 feet. Well, Williams Ab. This is the neighborhood I grew up in. Williams Ab, as you go up the hill, is a pretty steep hill. And as you go up every house next to it, so it's not out of line or out of character with the other houses on the street. And as far as density, we were not called on an FAR. As I stated in the beginning, it's 25,000, over 25,000 square foot lot. Most of the houses in that area are two family on 5,000 square foot lots. We have 4,000 square foot lots. I mean, this is a significant large piece of property that something has to be done with. It's been sitting in this repair for a long period of time. So, why hasn't it been fenced off and protected? Why hasn't the lot been protected? So, you know, has somebody checking on the property more frequently? The building itself has been boarded up. As they stated, this is through the community process. I went last night with them. We've been trying to schedule this for a while over the weekend to get out there and actually walk the property and see where the lines are of the new proposal. The building itself is just boarded up, but like everything else, kids gain access, animals and things like that. So, the house is in total disrepair. I'm sure Mr. Smith has the pitch that he provided to you. It is something that, you know, as I stated, I grew up there. My family still lives there. My wife's family still lives there. Everybody feels that this, and we've gone through a community process with the abutters. We have Brian Flint from the Mayor's Office and the A.S. Services as well as Steve McGuire from Timocardi's Office with air. And... Given that information, may I have a motion? I'm going to motion to approve with... Jeff, can we pay special attention to the parking? We're not going to approve that request for a variance, which is front yard variance. Okay. And you think you can work that out, Councillor? I can. Okay. So we'll pay special attention to that, Jeff. But I approve with BPDA design review with that special attention. Thank you. Everybody, second. All those in favor? Hi. Any opposed? And did you mention that the property was going to be deed restricted? I did, and that will be a provision that will be added to the ZBA decision. And we will hold off until we have evidence of that. Yeah, that's fine. Okay. Thank you. Calling in next two cases. Calling BOA 74572236 colonial avenue. Compendium case BOA 74572638 colonial avenue. This is for 36. This is a new energy positive to family semi-attached. The violation is Article 65, Section 41. Section 65-41.5, Audrey Pocking in design. Article 65, Section 9. Lot of areas insufficient. Article 65, Section 9. The floor to the ratio is excessive. Article 65, Section 9. The height is excessive. And Article 65, Section 9. Frontenad, 65-42.2 is insufficient. There is the same violations and the same purpose on 30-38 colonial out. Name and address for the record place. Scott Payette. I'm the architect representing the development and design team. My right is... Why are they brown? Also an architect on the team. Charles Gores, GFC Development Developer on the project. Please tell us what's being proposed. So what we're proposing is two families. This is a BPDA and DND RFP for energy positive housing. Currently there are two empty lots side by side joining in door chester. I think the second sheet of the handout shows the location. And the proposal is for units, one of which is affordable, to be energy positive, generate more energy than they consume. So there are a number of zoning requirements, variances that you're requesting. So let's ask this for us what the zoning district is and what is required and what you're proposing. So the zoning district is 3F-6000. Each lot is a two family. The existing lot size for each lot is 3,600 square feet. The required is 6,000. So we're requesting a variance for that. We've met all the side yard back yard setbacks. Floor air ratio is 0.4 and we're requesting a 1. And then on the height it's allowed is 2.5 stories, 35 feet. The request is for three stories and 39 feet. So the front yard setback requirement is 15. However, the modal is 10.5. Our setback is actually 13.8. So it's less than the, or it's more than the modal, less than the required. And this was new to me, but my understanding is if you don't set it at modal, you have to be at the required. And it's possible that you can meet it through modal. We actually prefer not to do modal because where we've located it, it's actually in line with the body of the existing houses on the street. Minus the bay windows. Our building does not have a bay window, so we actually feel this is a more, is a better contextual response to the street. Tell us about off street parking and loading. And then off street parking, we've actually provided two spaces per unit. It's required to be two spaces. However, it can be, the parking can occur either tandem or it can be offset. If it's offset, we don't have quite the required width. So what we're doing is we're calling it 1.7 tandem. The body is, I believe, people will park offset. Each unit, the requirement is two spaces per dwelling unit. Two spaces per dwelling unit. We're providing 1.7. It's 1.7 per dwelling unit. I'm sorry. Two spaces per house, per lot, one space per unit. And we're... The requirement is one space per unit and you're providing 1.75. No, two spaces. It's...sorry. The requirement is one space per unit. We're providing... So there's for each lot, it's required to be two spaces. The requirement is two spaces. We're providing 1.7 for each lot. So... It's force. What's that three spaces then, essentially? For the...for the phone. Sorry. Let me start over. How would the plan...well, you think about it. How would the plan be? Well, go ahead. Each...the requirement is one space per unit. So 36 colonial lab has two units. The requirement for that lot is two spaces. And for that lot, we have provided two tandem spaces. So the calculation becomes 1.7. Okay. Same thing for 38. Okay, got it. Got it. Sorry for the question. And then you said that the width of the driveway was also...was the affecting issue? No. I was explaining a sort of subtlety of the design. So you actually can park two non-tandom...your width is diminished slightly. Of our perfectly maneuverable. About the...is it one, two, three bedrooms and what the square bit...what it is? So the second sheet there has...I don't have my cheat sheet in front of me. I think we have your cheat sheet up there. It's a combination of twos and threes. Okay. And they vary from little over two thousand to...I don't know, eighteen. Any questions from the board? As you're facing the curve cut on the right, it's there you have to add the one on the left. Yes. Yeah, we're adding one curve cut. Any other questions from the board? Does anybody here to speak and support at this proposal? Good morning Madam Chair. I'm Emma Zubord. My name is Whitney Celestin from the Office of Neighborhood Services. And we support this project. Thank you. Good morning Madam Chairman. This is John Dole's El from the Boston Planning and Development Agency. This is as Scott mentioned a city disposition seeking to bring our E-plus Green Building Program to this neighborhood in Dorchester. It's part of the Talbot North Fork Triangle Eco District. This RFP was actually the product of a community request that we bring these kinds of building practices to the neighborhood. We examined a number of neighborhood sites that the city owned and selected these two. I also know that you're in support of that. Yes. Thank you. Is anybody here to speak in opposition? I like this rendering. Thank you. Nice touch. May I have a motion please? I'd like to make a motion. First of all, I'd like to thank you for your hard work and using space that's has been formally empty and that's appreciative and that neighborhood is close to where I live. So I think that that's a good opportunity to revitalize that neighborhood. I'm going to make a motion to a grant relief with continued BPDA design review and wish you good luck. All those in favor? All right. And your phones, motion carries, you're all set with that provided. Next case following 669, 52316 Nixon Street. This is a change of orchards from a guest house since 1946 and confirmed as a three family dwelling in existing condition. So request occupancy and there's no work to be done. Violations article 65 section 8, a three family use and for BIDEN and a 2F 5000 sub district. An article 65 section 41, RFP parking is insufficient. Name and address for the record please. I pass. Name and address for the record please. My name is Andy John for 16 Nixon Street. May I ask for deferral please? You're asking for deferral. Okay. Hopefully in November 28th. For what reason? The neighborhood meeting. You still haven't completed that. Okay. May I have a motion please? The neighborhood meeting. No, when are they meeting? You have to go in front of them. What do they mean? November 28th. Okay. We're meeting on November 28th. Any time out. I'm not sure if it's the November 28th. So the motion was made in January 9th. I'm sorry. January 9th. January 9th at 1130. Thank you. Thank you. Alright, thanks. Next case. Calling BOA 68024082. 82 Devin Street. This is the construct a new constructed two story car. Two story, rare addition to an existing building. The violation is Article 56 in 29. The Floyd A. Ratio is excessive. Name and address for the record please. Good morning. Francisco Evans 82 Devin Street or Chester Mass. Good morning. Kim Jong 82 Devin Street. So tell us quickly what you're proposing. To close the petition to the grant of a house for my existing request. I'm going to go to the grant of a house for the grant of a house for the record. I'm going to go to the grant of a house for the grant of a house for the record. I'm going to go to the grant of a house for the record. I'm going to go to the grant of a house for the record. I'm going to go to the grant of a house for the record. I'm going to go to the grant of a house for the record. I'm going to go to the grant of a house for the record. I'm going to go to the grant from the grant of a house to the grant moved to the grant of the grant for the record. Thank you for making my exception and knowing that you are secretary, consider the Council. The grant too. What is your plan, Commissioner? Any differing questions other members want to Hope get your documents? Can you please submit your documents to the grant and suggestion? All you've got your documents are now ready to submit. on the support of this project. Thank you. Does anybody here to speak in opposition? Good morning. My name is Kirk Rothman. I'm the attorney for one of the owners of the property located at 86 Daybought Street. Tell us what the opposition is based on. The issue my client has is between 82 and 86 there's an empty lot that has been used consistently by the petitioners for outdoor space for parties and the light and have left refuse on the property including grills. By reducing the space, the living space and the building we're concerned that that will further impair this lot which impairs my client. I'm glad you join me in the property. Thank you. Thank you. So you own both 84 and 86? It's making a lot that's been making when I bought the property 2000. You own 86? I own 82. I mean, sorry. You own 82. Who owns 84? That's a abandoned property. The owner is a deceased. It's been abandoned filled with lots of grass. So you've been so so the so you're so basically. I'm suggesting that you the rear of my house has nothing to do with that lot. It's the rear of my house on 82 Daybought Street. The lot's on the floor. But the concern is that that maybe perhaps there's some trespassing going on in 84. There's no trespassing. I've been maintained. I've been letting the city know that I've been abandoned. I've been using it for the grass trash. I've cut I use it every I cut the grass. So you maintain it. I maintain it. Okay. Yeah, where is that? Thank you, sir. Thank you. The rear of my house have nothing to do with that lot. Okay, may I have a motion, please? What a motion to approve with Jeff. Do we need BPDA on this? No. Okay. Okay. So we're not going to ask for it though. If we don't use it. There's second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Calling in the next two cases. Calling BLA664-957-289-Washington Street. There is building code BLA764-721-289-Washington Street. This is to tear down an existing building and erect a new three-story commercial office building. The violations, Article 65, Section 41. Outstream parking is insufficient. Article 65, Section 8. The use of office is forbidden. Article 65, Section 9. The Laudierria is insufficient. Article 65, the Laud Withers insufficient. Article 65, the Laud Frontages is insufficient. Article 65, the Floodier Ratio is excessive. Article 65, Building Heights is excessive. Article 65, the Building Heights number of stories is excessive. Article 65, Section 9 is side-yard as insufficient. Article 65, Section 9, the Laudierria is insufficient. This is building code. The violation is the eighth edition of 78CMR. Exterior wall, openings in exterior wall, which will comply with Section 705-705.86. Window openings are not permitted within a three foot of the property line. In the eighth edition, 78CMR, the spiral stairways. Spiral stairways are permitted to be used as a component in the means of egress only within the dwelling units from a space not more than 250 square feet. Name and address for the record please. Tyrone Davis, 289 Washington Street. Go ahead, test the math. My name is Edward Johnson. I'm one of the two architects working in association with Mr. Charles William Bradley of the Arts Professional Group Edward Johnson of ETJNA Architects. Okay, thank you. So first, as is that usual, please address the building code violation, which is refers to the openings and the spiral stairway. Regarding the openings, we did make that change. And the drawings that were submitted to you. So we moved the openings three feet from the floor. So you're not requesting the relief then? No, that one we made the change. Okay. That's done. On one side though, it was on the corner. If you'll face in the building on the corner where the glass is, that one, if we were to do three feet, it would make the footprint even smaller. So we're asking for relief on the other side of the, call it the front face of the building. Why do you need relief from the front right on the sidewalk and you have sufficient fire separation incidents because you're a fire walking street. So you don't need relief from the front. The front in that right side. But you don't need it on the front because you have, you know, you're going to be away. You have adequate fire separation incidents. Yeah, we did. Right. The issue of pulling is on the side. On the left side. Okay. Which we took care of. So basically, therefore, no building co-relief is required for the opening. Right here. That's correct. Right. Now, Chair McMotion, should not do co-relief for the openings. Second. All those in the paper? Hi. And is there something related to spiral families? Yeah. On the spiral stair, the square footage of the footprint is only two, like a, the second and third foot before that we're proposing is 229 square feet. It's under the 250, uh, threshold. And the spiral stair is enclosed. Correct. It is enclosed all the way up. And is that the second means of egress? It's the only means of egress. It's the only means of egress. At the, at the, uh, level of discharge is 2x, it's out at the front and on the side. Okay. Make a motion to grant the relief requested for, uh, again, this, I think, flies in the face. The 229 square feet, you're allowed to have a circular stair. It's not a 250 square foot. Correct. But therefore, we will deny the only co-relief or a circular stair, which not mean it. Right. And there's an denial for both requests for, um, for building code. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. So, building co-relief has been denied. Now, let's get to the meat of the relief requested. Can you briefly explain what's being proposed? I think Mr. Bazzani has the most recent drawings, right? Okay. So, please, while you're sitting down, tell us what's being proposed. Okay. We're proposing, um, three stories. Um, the, the height up to the roof is 30 feet. Uh, so it's not over the 35 foot limit. Um, there's, there's an handicap after. Uh, at the first floor. So it looks like you have a few violations. The use is forbidden. What is the use and what's the zoning district? The zoning district is, uh, it's a, believe it was a 3F, 5,000. And we're proposing, um, basically office. Okay. Okay. Okay. And what, um, so the building height, the side, the rear yard, how is the, how are the plans, Mr. Bazzani? The plans were in action. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak and support of this proposal? Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. Flavio De Vega, Mayor's Office, neighborhood service. We'd like to go on record and support, uh, support from four corners, May Street, as well as the United Neighbors Association. Is anybody else to speak and support? Is anybody here to speak? Yes. Yes, Madam Chair and board. My name is Joyce Harvey. I live in 106 Radcliffe Street in Dorchester. I'm a neighborhood resident and I, he, I'm here on behalf of the, uh, Harvard Washington neighborhood association. And we've approved this idea, this proposal. Thank you. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board, Johan Schien's neighborhood liaison for Council, Ontario Campers Office. We would like to go and record and support of this project. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board, Devon Lewis from Reps. And I'm home office and we support this project on record. Good morning, no purpose for our four corners, May Street, the Executive Director. I'm on behalf of four corners, May Street and United neighborhood Association who are in support of 289 Washington Street. Madam Chair, members of the board, David Orinean on behalf of City Council President Michelle Wu, we'd also like to go on record and support. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is Stafford Lewis. I'm an employer at 272 Washington Street. I'm also on the board of directors of Greater Full Conjunction Coalition. And we'd like to go and record and supporting this project. Thank you. Is there anybody here to speak in opposition? May I have a motion, please? Motion to approve with continued BPDA design review. Thank you. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. We've seen you guys a few times. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I'm going to call the 1030s. Are there any deferrals or withdrawals for 1030? This is only deferrals or withdrawals for 1030? Yes. Pairing now, we'll go right to the next case for 930. Calling BLA 713-534-26-26A-Duey Street. This is to erect a new two-family dwelling on an empty lot. The violation is Article 50 Section 29. Reay out is insufficient. Article 50 Section 29. Usable open spaces insufficient. Article 50 Section 29. Additional lot of areas insufficient. Article 50 Section 29. 40 ratio is excessive. Article 50 Section 29. Side-yard is insufficient. Name and address of the record. If you could speak up, it would be great for you. Really helpful. The acoustics in here are not very good. So some people have a hard time hearing. I think you guys can hear me, but I think some other people that can't hear. So, name and address for the record, please. Good morning, Madam Chair and members of the board. My name is Thomas Roverro, 25th Surrey Road, Hangham, Massachusetts. Good morning, Madam Chair and Honourable Members of the board. My name is Ahmed Neur, at two-sejuic road Cambridge Massachusetts. My name is Good morning, Madam Chair and the board of member. My name is Liban Abdul, six-time-orth Chair and Mass. Honour the project. Some tell us it's being proposed. Good morning, Madam Chair. My name is Ahmed Neur, Honour of Neur Construction and Permitting. I just wanted to refresh your memory first if I pass this to the project architect. This project was here before you sometime in the fall. Proposed three family. We had a overwhelming at the time support of the neighbors, except with one neighbor that was using the owner who's sitting to my left, Liban's parking, and that has been resolved. Joshua McVeyden was there at our second neighborhood meeting. We had an overwhelming, the neighbors are excited. And I'll have the architect to talk about the proposed. However, just wanted to say, if I may, the owner sitting on my left is an immigrant, hard-working immigrant who's trying to build this property for his family, no one else. And just now, let's go directly to the violations. I need to know what is required, what is proposed, the sizes of each one of those units and the number of victims. Okay, this crackling size of the units are 1,550 square feet, three bedroom, two baths. The lot is in the three family, 4,000 square foot zone, existing lot areas, 2,788 square feet. The required rear yard is 30 feet. We have 24.8 feet. The side lot is required to be 10 feet. We have five feet on each side. Usable open space was deemed insufficient. We do have 650 square feet, Piazza for the first floor unit. And we also have a 650 square foot Piazza for the second unit, as well as a third floor balcony. The floor area ratio required is 0.8 and we have a 1.28 floor area ratio. How are the plans, Mr. Bazzotti? The arms are adequate. And so the, and any questions from the board? What is the floor to ceiling in the basement? The floor to ceiling in the basement, if I turn to the section at a moment. It is in excess of 7 foot 6. Thank you. There are two courtyards. One on each of the streets. Do we have data? Well, there is an existing one on Dewey Street. The one that is going to be utilized is the offodacian street. And if the access is offodacian street, what is the processing for the driveway up? It is already there. It is existing. It is existing and we won't be using it. So, let it be pulled up and you will be putting grass in there or something. So, you have open space. You would be doing landscape and yes, you don't need it. We don't need it. Yeah, so the access will be from the data. Sure. And so the basement will have a family room. Where are the utilities for each of those units? Well, it will be a split system HVAC. So there is ample area up on the third floor to serve the second unit. And it will be ample space at the rear of the lower level to serve the first floor unit. Any other questions from the board? Does anybody here to speak and support of this proposal? Happy Halloween, Madam Chair, members of the board. Joshua McFad, here is the office of the neighborhood. Service is going to record and support this project. The applicant and I had an appointment on site a couple months ago and every but not a lot of them. Thank you. Anybody here to speak in opposition? May I have a motion please? Motion of approval, BCD, second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Jeff, in addition to the design review for the building, look at the building. Thanks. Calling an XK, calling VOA7324-181-40 Clipit Street. This is the rebuild and enclosed and exist in exterior reports. Minor alterations inside of the building. Exterior work will consist of new framing, siding and windows. Violation, dot, go 50 section 29. The fluidity and ratio is excessive. Ameenad, just fill the record please. Paral, Raymond, 998, Metropolitan, Ab Milton. Frank Sparrow, 40 Clipit Street, Boxing. Please tell us what's being proposed. What's being proposed is we are enclosing a porch on the side of the property. This Sparrow lives in a rear building, is looking to move on the first floor so we can live in a space without a lot of stairs. So we're enclosing the porches on the side so we can expand this living space there. So your only violation looks like it's FAR. Can you tell us what the size is of this enclosed porch? The size of the enclosed porch is about 200 square feet, so it's about 500 square feet. A lot is 5,500. The building is going to be 5,800. FAR is a 3F neighborhood is .8, so our FAR is .11. 1.15. 1.1. Okay, how are the plans, Mr. Bazzani? Roger. Any questions from the board? Does anybody here just speak and support of this proposal? Greetings, Madam Chair, members of the board. Again, Joshua McFad, May its office and able services like the Blommer and the Sports Project. You speak in opposition. So this is a, how many units in this building? Three units. The building, the back is a duplex. About two pounds. That's where Mr. Sparrow lives now and is looking to move to. Okay, thanks. May I have a motion please? Motion to approve with continued BPDA design review. Second. All those in favor? All right. Any opposed? Motion carries with that. Provise a good look. Thank you. Calling BOA 7495713 Lawrell Street. This is a change of lockage from a one family to a two family. Construct a roofed dormer and stall stairs from the second floor to attic. And stairs from the first floor to basement. Violations, Article 50, Section 29, excessive FAR. Article 50, Section 29. It's a insufficient open space. Article 50, Section 29, insufficient Ray out of setback. And Article 50, Section 29, insufficient lock size for additional unit. They may not address further record please. Elizabeth Nogoraja, 46th L. Street, Roxbury Mass. Prem Nogoraja, 46th Street Roxbury Mass. Jimmy McNeill, Unity Construction Company. Foster. Well, let's what's being proposed? We're proposing picking a... We haven't... Can you speak up a little bit? I'm having a hard time here. Okay, we have a one family house that we would like to make it into a two family house. It was formerly a two family house about ten years ago. The previous owner had a chance or two. And one family, I guess, for tax purposes. So we'd like to take it back to a two family. And that's what we're proposing. Okay. So how largely should unit be proposed unit be? Possibly 1200 square feet. Okay. And so this is a extension into the roofed dormer and extension into the basement. Yes, it is. Okay. What's going to be in the basement? It's the part of the living space from the first floor unit. Great, exactly. Excuse me? What exactly would it be a den or what would it be? Yes, family room. A family room. And what's the floor to ceiling height? 7 feet, 5 inch. 7 feet, 5? Okay. How are the plans, Mr. Bazzani? Granted, I had a quick connection from the first floor unit down to the basement. And how about the utilities? Are they separated from the unit? There is a separate door into the rear line, the roof. It can work for another home. Okay. Any questions from the board? It is currently taxed as a single family. Taxed. That's a two-family. We even pay taxes as a two-family. Three? Three families. So when the previous owner changed it to a single family, the tax truck does not change? Right. And then he never changed. You know, we're looking at Google else and it appears to be that there are three mailboxes in the front of that building. So what's happening? It used to be a... I purchased this property about 15 years ago. And the contractors were supposed to do all the changes for me. So I've been paying taxes for three families, all these years. So it hasn't been occupied as a three-family because there are three mailboxes? Yes. So you've been paying taxes? Okay. So what you're trying to do is actually... Make it bigger. Two families and make it larger. Each unit larger. Okay. The basement in the first floor is going to be one unit. The second and third floor is going to be another unit. So basically your occupancy, even though it's been used as a three-family, your occupancy of bracket is a one-family. Yes. Okay. I understand. Any other questions? On the plan, it shows an exterior rear spiral stair going down from the second floor to the grave. Is that already exist? Yes. It's already exist. It's the second, the second, the second floor. Okay. So I have to just do that. Yes. Is anybody here to speak and support this proposal? Madam Chair, may I also point out the... Hold on. All done. Greetings, Madam Chair, members of the board. Joshua McFadden, Mayor's Office Neighborhood Services. I had to go and get to support this project. The applicant has reached out to their butters and gardener's support of their butters and also have let us recommendation from their butters as well. Good morning. My name is Deborah Milton. I am a direct butter for 29 years. And I am extremely in support of this improvement of the neighborhood in this particular project. Thank you. Thank you. Is anybody here to speak in opposition? May I have a motion, please? I have a motion for approval with actions no exterior work can be done. No. There are second. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. You're all set. Good luck. Following BOA 723-43720 C. This is a change of a use building from 16 units to 32 units. The violation is Article 50, Section 43. Hostley parking is insufficient. Article 56, Section 29. The Laudierry, Fadditional Dwelling Units is insufficient. And Article 56, Section 29. Usable open space is insufficient. Name and address for the record, please. Attorney Daniel McDevitt, two grand of avenue in Milton. With me is Mayor Alexander and Pamela, Alexander the Honours of this building. Good morning. Good morning. Tell us what's being proposed. So this building is currently a 16 unit building. There are eight two bedroom units in the building and there are eight one bedroom units in the building. We're actually proposing now to create 28 small size units in partnership with the Pine Street Inn. This is a site that my clients have decided what they want to do is to partner with Pine Street to create housing for, as it says, older Bostonians who don't have accessible units. This will be completely elevated building of Lafours. It'll be sprinkled building. It will have central air conditioning. It will have management in the building during the day every day from Pine Street. There'll be a laundry facility in the building as well as storage in the basement. So what we're proposing to do, the use of the building is not a violation. The existing violations exist as it currently stands right now. The building is vacant. So in its current status, the maximum occupancy of this building would be 48 people. Presumably there could be as many as 24 cars for the people living in this building in its current status. We're proposing 28 occupants with no cars. And the reason why we say there'll be no vehicles is because the income limits that are put on it by this project, the people have such a low income level that they really couldn't afford a car. They have to make less than $10,000. He had a live here. So the largest each unit proposed to be? Well, what we're looking at is the units are around 300 square feet per unit, which is consistent with the other projects that Pine Street has at the St. Peter's project on Bowdoin Street and a few of the other projects in the neighborhood. So they've come up with what they think is a workable design and very manageable. What they find is that they have residents who are aging in place on the third floor of a three family, and they're having trouble with the stairs, or people who are in different other locations that need services that they can't get to because they're all in different locations. So my clients own the building next door, and we've also talked to the Abudas. We had a sidewalk meeting, which was attended very, very well in favor. And we've also met with the Mayas Office and the Local Civic Association. So the violations exist currently. There's nothing we can do to fix the violations because the code was created after this building was built. So we're trying to make it less of an impact on the community while providing a greater impact to those who are in need. So the current owners will continue to own the building, but it will be managed by Pine Street. How long is the lease for? Well, typically they're 20 years and 20 years in length. That's what we're looking at is triple net lease, 20 year leases. Are they doing a complete rehab on the property? It's a gut rehab. It's a my client. Besides being local residents, they'll also local business people. Mr. Alexander owns an HVAC company called General Air, and they employ members of 103, the plumage union, and the pipe fittings. You run to Union Chup, in Roxbury where they live. They certainly provide great wages for their workers. We tall building code requirements. We tall building code requirements whatsoever. The elevator would go from the basement to the fourth floor so that anyone coming in that be ramps at the front of the building. And it's full height in the basement and full access. It's all life safety and everything. Correct. It's sprinkled throughout. Looking at the units and the each one has KIT, guys. And KIT checks. But what's the, it doesn't show any appliance. What's the meal? How do people have meal? Typically, if you want to talk. It will be refrigerator. I had took a tour of the Grady building on Walnut Avenue on the Franklin Park that the Pine Street manages. And those units have stove tops, electrical that are tied. And they also have a convention oven. So they're able to use that. And then there's a common kitchen that has a full kitchen with stove oven and a full kitchen on the floor. And the building. I don't see the full kitchen on the floor. That's that particular project. If you look at this, a letter of recommendation in my packet from Jamaica Plain NDC about how Pine Street manages these units for them on other sites. What they're asking for is a sink. They designed it with a granite countertop for low maintenance. So we just want to make sure that. So, to burn a stove, a convention oven and a sink and a full refrigerator. They don't show the appliances in these drawings. I know that. But it's a full refrigerator. Nothing under the counter would allow people to actually shop for a week or two at a time and have large freezers. So, the expectation is that people will do meals on their own. Oh, yes, yes. They would be. And we would. Pine Street would be have onsite. They would come during the day and and be able to assess people. Has the lease been signed? No. No. And so, so this would be this would not be formally homeless people, but it would be people who are transitioning or downsizing. It's not a shelter. And it's each person who would be a resident of this building would have a one year lease with Pine Street. Pine Street would have a 20 year lease with Mike clients. They are looking to take most of the new residents for this site from existing sites where the people are need and now need an elevator. Now, don't need as much space or whatever. Directly across from the site is is Franklin Park. And thank you. Any other questions? Now, just asked it. I know there's a 20 year lease which has not yet been signed. Is there a deed restriction of any kind that would keep this property for the elderly? Well, the lease, the reason why the leases are signed yet is because the relief hasn't been granted. So, Pine Street doesn't, they need to, they collateralize the lease through federal funds. So, they need to know that they're going forward with the project. So, we need to get the relief from the board for the design of the project in order to, for them to take the next step and then go ahead and they've secured the funds. But we haven't signed the lease yet. Also, because of the enormity of the construction here and the, you know, an elevator that goes really from the basement to the fourth floor. The construction time is, we have to be factored into the commencement date of the lease. Is the building occupied or not? Not now. It is not occupied. So, we don't have to displace anybody. And I guess the question we've asked other applicants when they've come in with proposals like this is that the relief goes. And I think that's where Marie was trying to get to is that the relief goes with the building, not with the applicant. Right. Not with the lease. So, the question then becomes is after 20 years, you know, should Pine Street decide not to renew the lease. We have very substandard units available to the public. And I think that, that is a question we ask every applicant to come in with these, these kinds of proposals. I hope I'm not back here in 20 years. All I can say is that. We want to make sure our success aboard is here in 20 years. Right. Right. Not sure. We will be here in 20 years. But, you know that there is some. I do know that there aren't any projects right now that Pine Street has done that are at the tail end of any 20-year period. They seem to be about in the first four or five years in these projects and the voting street was only two or three years ago. I'm sorry. Can you just repeat the question again? You're wondering if that was the relief. Right. The relief goes with the building. So, the building might be there for the next 50 years. But the Pine Street may have been assigned to be there for 20 years. Right. And then these units go to the open market and they're very substantive. And we need to understand what happens. We do not want the neighborhood all of a sudden to be flooded with substantive units. When there might be more of a demand for, you know, two bedrooms, three bedroom units, larger size units. You're not leaving the size of the population in there. So, you're going from 16 to I think 20, 20, 20, 28. We're actually population wise. We're coming down from 48 to 28. But regardless of what history we are thinking forward, I had about what this relief might mean to the community. I would suggest that we could work with the law department on a deed restriction. I think that that's very reasonable. It's something that PPDA does on affordable units within Tondo projects where we are. If you approve 10 units, one of them has to be affordable. That becomes a deed restriction. Does this go through article 80? No? It's not after the use is an allowed use. This is a multi-family residential neighborhood. Is anybody here to speak and support in this proposal? Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the Board, Joshua McFadden, Mary's office neighbor service is right. We're going to record and support this project. We've met with our new budget meetings that went very well. Everybody that came out was in support. I know the applicants are having met with the girls and try to neighbor the association as well. So, we'd like to be in support of this project. We're having a busy day today. No, it's a lot going on. Is anybody here to speak in opposition? May I have a motion please? I'm going to motion to approve with continued BPDDA design review. And I would add to that the conversation around the lease and the deed restriction. I think the only my only concern about deed restriction. I mean, I think that we should enter something or talk to somebody. My only in problem with the deed restriction does it encumber somebody from finance? Well, I think the mortgage is the finance, so it's a benefit. That's right. Well, we owe the finance. He can find the construction. So you're okay with the deed restriction? We're okay with that because we have to. But can we say this that in the event we had to, if pine street was no longer leasing it from us, that after the year is up, that we can revert back to making it a units that are two. So the proposal to have that I hear is that this is approval with BRA design review with a 20 year deed restriction contingent on the pine street lease. After that, it will be reevaluated. Revalued. Okay. So that was a second of that. The second to then. All those in favor. All right. Any opposed? Most should get carries. You're all set. Thank you. Thank you. On the case, BOA 692 756 2 to 4, Dolan's Court. Madam Chair, members of the board, that's been deferred to January 6th at 1130. Okay. The following is the next committee. It's probably the OA 718 394 36 to 36 A. Haberfoot Street. There's a companion case BOA 718 397 38 to 38 A. Haberfoot Street. This is the 36 36 A. This is a constructive addition in the rare and then change our from a single family and number 36 to a two family resident of 36 36 A in accordance with some kind of plans of 2500 nine square feet. This is one family and one family with deck. The violations. The violation of the article 10 section one. Limitation of parking areas of buffering. Article 55 section 9. Incipient law to area. Article 55 section 9. Excessive FAR. Article 55 section 9. Incipient area. Setback. Article 55 section 9. Incipient side yard. Setback. Article 55 section 40. Osterie parking and loader requirements. Parking in any portion of the front yard is not allowed. This is for 38, 38 A. Haberfoot Street. It's a partial demolition of a structure in the rare and then change our from a single family to a dentist office to a two family. The violations. Article 9 section two. An unconforming use change. Article 10 section one. Inbuffering. Article 55 section 9. Incipient additional law area. Article 55 section 9. Excessive FAR. Article 55 section 9. Incipient open space. Article 55 section 40. Osterie parking and loader requirements. Parking in any portion of the front yard. Name and address for the record please. Madam Chair, members and board. My name is John Pugh. I'm at 32 Warren Street, Need a Massachusetts. John Hall, 36, 38 A. Haberfoot Street. I am the architect for the project. My client intends to improve and revitalize this neglected, dilapidated property with the addition of one residential unit on each lot. We are replacing the existing commercial unit building within that same footprint. We have received approval from the Jamaica Plain Neighborhood Council and zoning committee. We have the full support of the neighbors. So, please, please, please, please, please. You are converting these one family. One family, then you stop with 60 family. And what's the size of that priority? So the additional square footage, as I said, is again, kind of built on the existing footprints. There will be a, on the 36 side of the property. There will be 1,500 square foot, 3 bedroom, 2 1 1 1 half bath units on the 38 side of the property. There will be 1,000 square foot, 2 bedroom, 2 1 1 1 half bath units. The house about the parking? Parking. That was something that we addressed at the neighborhood council. We looked into that and what we kind of came to a conclusion on was 0.5 per property or per lot. So it's one unit per two units on each lot. We have parking space per two units. Correct. And we do have an exhibit here. We have a supply for. What was the violation that you applied for as far as parking is concerned? Originally we applied for one space on the 36 side and two on the 38 side. And the way that it was originally laid out, it was, the parking was somewhat in the front yard. So we've made adjustments to the plan, per feedback from the neighborhood council. And now we have both of those individual spaces on each side of the property. Pushed back from not the front yard. It was basically a violation at 38. Increased the violation? Well it was from what you submitted. Because you submitted for two parking spaces and now you're providing one. Further JP zone and that's what they, that's what they wanted. Yeah, we do. Is that the most recent drawing that you have? The main time is anyone here to speak in support of this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the board, John Allison, mayors, officer, neighborhood services. On behalf of Alex Valdiz, we'd like to unrecord and support. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Shannon Murphy from City Councilor Maddo Mallee's office. The council would like to go on record and support this project. Madam Chair, members of the board, on the back side of the property, I'm on the neighbor immediately on the back side of this property. Thank you. Is anybody here to speak in opposition? No one's here in opposition? Okay, so we're waiting for you to get us the plans. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. This is Annie Howard the plans. So this is uncomfortable with what you see. And that does reward that backyard parking. Give me a have a motion please. Opposite to approve with continued VPDA design review. And hold plans until we hold the signature until we get the plans. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. You're all set. Calling VOA 725-25140 Minden Street. Yes. This is a proposed roof addition and adding three story rare addition in new balconies and decks. The violation of Article 55 section 9, the Florida Eurasia was excessive, Article 55 section 9, usable open spaces and sufficient. Article 55 section 9, side yard is its sufficient. The amenad address for the record please. My name is Dermat Thoyne, I'm the attorney located at 84 State Street, Boston. This is Arthur Tue to my left and this is just fed them into my right. Tell us what's been proposed please. We'll go Madam Chair. We're seeking relief on the following on 355 section 9 violations. What we're seeking is basically to go from 5 0.7 to 1.2 and we're looking at reducing our open space to conform to the building. We're also, although we're not changing the third which is the side yard efficiency because presently, it's just, yeah. So tell us you're proposing a roof addition. What's the occupancy for this building ultimately going to be? The occupancy is going to be three bedroom units. What are the square feet of the unit? Yeah, the total square feet is 3,700 and 1 square foot. The first floor is 1,240, the second floor is 1,219 and the third floor is 1,313 square feet. How would the plan for Mr. Bazzani? Any questions from the board? Does anybody get to be able to support this proposal? We, we, we, we, Madam Chair, members of the board, John Ellis and Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. On behalf of Alex Feldes, we'd like to go on record and support. Madam Chair, members of the board, Chianna Murphy from City Councilor Maddomelley's office. Council, I'll need to go on record and support of this project. Please say anything you need to speak in opposition. Your name and address for the record, please? Name and address is 53 Round Hill Street in Jamaica Plain. And the name is Margaret Reed and the last name is Deo. Tell us what your opposition is based on? Opposition is based on the back of the house, very close to where the fence and, but our house is. Okay. And this is the rear, the rear of the building. Yeah. That, because that's not cited as a violation. So I think it might need to meet the zoning code regulations. Also, also it's, it's, it's going to block a lot of structural part of it. Okay. And your, thank you. Yes. Your name and address? Yes. Good morning. My name is Carlos Guerra. I live in 142 mint and a street for 20 years. And I'm not agree about this plan because they, first they don't have enough land and going to block the building. And we have a school in front, you know, enough parking for people who they, whatever they plan to build right there. And I'm not supporting them. Thank you. Okay. So, sounds like you need to do some work with your neighbors? We actually reached out extensively to all the neighbors. We had a very, very aggressive, butters meeting. We spoke to everybody. We even hired a Spanish translator to go from door to door. We have two specific neighbors that you need to go up quick. We will continue to speak with them. We've done, as you said, outreach. We have support letters from 12 of our neighbors. But these are their recta butters, rear and side. So, okay. They have a motion, please. I'm going to make a motion to approve with continued BPD design review, with commitment from you guys that you're going to work with those neighbors. Absolutely. Second. All those in favor? Any opposed? Motion carries with those two. Provisions. Thank you. Falling VOA 746-034-839 Albany Street. This is installed two commercial grade 8 foot black mesh chain link fence with gate on both ends in the private owned pike street and intersex fellow street in the north end of Albany Street in the south end. The violation is article 2A. Fence height is required. Ray at setback cannot be more than 6 feet. Name and address for the record, please. Yeah. This is the Starrick's the body 99 Fulton Street Boston Mass. This is the Sean K. Hill 134 West Concert Street in Boston. Having a hard time hearing this call that activity in the hallways. Can you speak up a little bit? Tell us what you're proposing. We actually filed for a pyramid. We actually have an eight foot fence, six foot fence up at the present time. And the pyramid was was granted, but we actually have an eight foot fence. So when they filed for the pyramid, we got the wrong pyramid. So the contractor had gotten the wrong pyramid. So that's where we're at violation. We actually have the fence in place. In all that's in place. We just mirrored the fence that's there now, which is water and soil. It's an eight foot fence. So all's we're asking for is relief of that. We have a pyramid for a six foot fence. It's a repair business. Collision repair. Correct. It's a collision repair center. You have to stand that street in the day. So what you're saying this is on the backside on the water and suicide. Correct. I don't go in the stand. The six foot pyramid was issued in error. No, we do have a six foot one. But we actually have an eight foot fence. You know, we're not too terribly. Was the six foot one issued by mistake? No. No. We got a six foot, but on the contract it said six foot. And we had an improper pyramid. That's what our issue is. Regardless, so you're requesting relief for an eight foot chain lane fence. Correct. The problem is with we're not very keen on chain lane fences. So. We're just mirroring what's already existing. Well, but isn't it true that on the right side is an eight foot fence? Correct. So you're going from the right side across the rear of the probably an eight foot fence. But on the left side is a six foot fence. I believe so, yes. So. And is that tower on your property? Is that water in the sewer's property? It's on your property. Correct. And that's fully permanent. That's correct. I'm just asking. Yeah, it was 20 years ago. Yeah. But. The reading on the spectrum furnishings the stalls 61 when you beat of six foot high fence. Correct. So how did they get to it? Because when they filed for the pyramid, they when they went down there, it said six foot. But when they actually did the installation, it was an eight foot. There was a mistake when they filed the pyramid. So that's what we're here. I didn't have any trouble understanding. Okay. Would it still be eight foot fence is there? Yes, the fence is there. Correct. The Kylie fence company. At your request or at bus and water source request? In my request. So it's your property. Correct. Okay. It's my property. We got the we got the okay from our bottom BU. We got the okay from the fire department. We fired a pump. We spoke to all these mute muted southern papalities and they said it was fine. This is what we needed to do was file for a pyramid in which we had done. Okay. So one last question. If the Kylie fence people. Yes. We're working with a permit that said six foot fence. Why did they put it in the name for fence? I'm not sure. I didn't think I don't know. I honestly. Four thousand dollar questions. Okay. So now we know what the issue is. You have the plans, Mr. Bazzani. The plans are spec for six foot fence. They don't reflect the analysis. So you understand what the difference is? Yes. Two feet. Yeah. Well six. Excellent. But just to be clear. Yes. And not sarcastic. No. So the first foot doesn't need a permit. Doesn't need relief. Eight feet needs relief. Okay. So fence company would have known that a six foot doesn't need relief. And the eight feet doesn't need relief. Okay. So that's the problem here. So do you want me to make the fence a six foot fence? Because we can. We have the. We have the. Okay. For six foot fence. So that's your. Yes. So the probably that's. So can I just speak one more second? Yes. The issue in my neighborhood. I know if you guys have been down to the location. Will you. I'm going to walk down the street from. So you have a little bit of idea of why we need an eight foot fence. I mean, you have to make a decision. Are you going to go six or eight? If you have, if you're going with a six foot, then you withdraw the permit. We deny it. If you go through eight feet, then you need relief from us. Perhaps you would need to look. At some other material rather than that chain length fence. So those are the options in front of you. So we just make it a six foot fence. Okay. So you're withdrawing the application. So you want to prove the eight foot that's there? You're not giving us a chance to approve it. Okay. So what I'm saying to you is we're trying to be clear here. What's going on? Right. We're trying to get understanding of what's going on. You're telling us that you have a six foot fence that should have been an eight foot. If you wanted an eight foot fence, you would have need relief. I'm sorry. If you wanted an eight foot fence, you would have needed relief. Okay. So the two feet that you were talking about, you need a relief for. Okay. You're coming in front of us, asking us for relief. Yes. We're talking about granting it to you. Yes. And then you're saying you're going to give us a six foot fence. No, no. So make a decision. Yes. I'd like to have relief, please. I'm asking you for the relief. Thank you. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. I'm asking you for the relief. So tell us briefly what's being proposed. So we're seeking a change of use and occupancy from what the building is currently as office and warehouse to a brewery with retail accessory, tap room use, and offices as well. So your violation is basically because it's an industrial use and you're having a commercial use in that space. It's a use violation. And there's off street parking its efficiency. Tell us what parking your proposed that you have there already. So we do have 24 dedicated spaces along with the building. And I have some print duts here of George Street and North Oak Street, which are the two streets that are but our property, which are clear and open on the weekends when we'll be doing most of our business. And also we expect that a large percentage of our clients' help will be using Uber and Lyft and other transportation services and not actually driving and parking. So we believe that we have sufficient solution for parking between the spaces that are deeded and the street parking available. And parking is not there's no parking on Hampton Street. Sorry. There's no parking allowed on Hampton Street. Right, we're talking about George and North Oak, the ones that run perpendicular to Hampton Street. How are the plans for Mr. Pizani? On your out of it. Any questions from the board? Does anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Greetings, Madam Chair. I'm the board, Joshua McFed, Mary's office, neighborhood services. Why do you go and wrink in and support this project? The applicant actually met with a butters a very early on in this process, guarding the support of orchard parks, orchard gardens as well as St. Pat's neighborhood association as well as Mount Pleasant neighborhood association. So they definitely and I believe DS and I as well. So they've done their due diligence in the community on this project and they definitely support them through our process. Thank you. Is anybody here to speak in opposition? May I have a motion? I make a motion to approve. Do we need BPDA? No, I don't think we need to. And I just want to wish you good luck. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Your own set. I'm going to call 1030 hearings again. Are there any deferrals or withdrawals for 1030? We know this room is full. We will take a five minute break and we will reconvene at 1140. Thank you. The Board of Appeals for Tuesday, October 31st is back in session. We are going to, since it's now, quarter to 12, we're going to ask for deferrals. You want me to do it? All withdrawals from 1130. Sorry. That's okay. And no matter what chair wants to do my job as well, but I'm going to do my job for re-discussions. I'm calling all deferrals over to Raros for 1130. Yes. All is there? The address? Nine Chelsea Street. For the record, calling BOA 698906, nine Chelsea Street. Name an address for the record please. Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the Board, Richard Lins, 1216, Bennings and Streety Sposon. We have the petitioner. We are still in the article AD process. We expect to have some movement on this hopefully at the next BPD board meeting at which time we can proceed with our request or relief report report. Okay. What's the deferral? It's there a second. Second. All those in favor? Any opposed? The date please. You have a date of January 9th. Is that good? Passed to be. Excuse me? That's a pass to be. Okay. Thank you. January 9th. Are there any other deferrals or withdrawals? Address please. 29 Commonwealth Avenue, BOA 733841. What's your job else, Councillor? I'm going to call this in for the record. Calling BOA 733841 29 Commonwealth Avenue. Name an address for the record please. Good morning. My name is Mike Ross. I'm an attorney with Prince Lowe Bell. I represent 29 Hexagon Inc. So rather LLC. We would like to have the board entertain a deferral. There's a lot of attention on this particular proposal as you can see from some of my friends in our room. We think a couple more weeks would help us through the community process and we welcome a deferral. Now just for all the people I see who are wearing those red buttons there. Not buttons, but stickers. Stickers. As you can see we have other items on the agenda. Just to clarify for everybody that when the applicant requests a deferral it is granted because we understand that there is continued processes that need to continue. So please once the decision has been made by this board we ask that you quietly leave the room so we can hear the next person in line. Okay? Thank you. Mayor, is there a second? Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? The date please? We're into the new year. January 9th. Okay. Thank you very much. Thank you. Any other deferrals or withdrawals for 1130? Address please? 18th-Cristh Street. All system as well. Hold on a second. Hold on. What's the... Greenwich Street? Eight? Yes. All the ready. All the way. Three six, two two seven, 18th-Cristh Street. Name an address to the record please. Daniel, 18th-Cristh Street. Dorses the mass, all two one two two. And tell us what you're requesting. We would like to defer our case. And for what reason? Because our lawyer can show up at the last minute today he is busy with something else. He can't come to the... So we would like to ask for deferral if it's possible. It may have a motion for deferral. I'll do deferral. Is there a second? Thank you. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? The date please? Well, we can get December 12th. We can squeeze that one in. Thank you. I'll tell you a lawyer to make sure he's there. December 12th. Wait a minute. This is the second deferral. It came in front of the small zoning board. Well, we just need to get clarification on this. What's the next... So you're all set? December 12th. Yes. Thank you. You have the point for... Address, Councillor. Morning. 23 Chamberlain. Street, notches. 23 Chamberlain. Fuller, record colleague. POA 708, 0 0 0 123 Chamberlain Street. Name and address, fuller, record play. Vargas Düsselvera. What are you requesting? Request in the deferral. We had initial meeting with the community. There's still some business that's been unresolved. Just like an opportunity to go back and resolve that before we come back. I'm in the motion. In place. All should do the deferral. Is there a second? Second. All those in favor? Aye. Where are you? We're at January 9th. You're on May 29th. I'm about throwing out from the Newport Association. It's a January 9th. Correct. All right. Thank you. We have actually 10-30 cases. There's no more withdrawals or deferrals for 11-30. On the first case, POA 734745394K Street. This is a constructed rare addition to the property. The violation of the Article 27and Section 5. This is in the self-post and iPod actability. Article 68, Section 29. Roost, Rue Structe, Restricted District. Name and address, fuller, record play. Morning, Madam Chair. The names of the board. My name is George Morancy. I'm an attorney with the business address of 350 West Broadway in South Boston. Madam Chair, members, the building of 394K Street is an existing three-family dwelling. There's no proposed change. The number is equal to one minute. I need clarification from the BRA. This is a South Boston iPod. Is the violation here. Do we need a recommendation from the BRA board on these? Well, it's like any other appeal. You don't have to hold back. We didn't get this case in time for our board. I don't want to hold something back for an iPod permit. It can be treated the same way as a conditionally-usual variance request. What he's asking for is an iPod permit. I understand, but I thought this iPod was a little different from others, and that it requested BRA. Standard language. Okay. Okay. Go ahead, Mr. Morancy. Thank you, Madam Chair. It's an existing three-family building. There's no proposed change of occupancy. There is a proposed rear addition, including a new rear egress stairway. There are two citations here. Article 27S, South Boston iPod, applicability, as well as a cited violation under Article 68 Section 29. Excuse me, for restricted roof structure district. The work being done consistently of an addition to the rear that would be approximately 50%. It would be approximately 15 feet deep by 18 and a half feet wide. It is dimensionally compliant. There is a proposed roof deck. The roof deck is 10 by 10. It has, I'm sorry, it's accessed by a stairway up to a hatch. And there is an existing headhouse on the building that will remain, but that is not a headhouse that is being proposed to access the roof deck. The roof deck occupies less than one third of the area of the roof. It does not exceed more than one feet above the highest point of the roof. Mr. Morancy, one question. Yes. Access will be accessed. Be for the entire building, or just to the third unit. It's just the third unit. It's just a unit three roof deck. And my point where I was going on the dimensions location of the roof area occupied by the deck, I don't believe that it actually is in violation of 6,829. 6,829 may have been cited for alteration of an existing roof profile. And I would point out that the design of the addition doesn't change the existing roof profile. It's a flat roof. The addition in the rear is also a flat roof. The deck does change the profile, but not to the extent that it exceeds the requirements under Article 6,829. In the case that we are considering the roof deck is a relative of 6,829 as a conditional use standard. So essentially we're looking for iPod compliance as well as a conditional use permit only to the restricted roof structure. In terms of the addition and what it does for the building and the buildings occupancy, it goes from a three unit five bedroom building to a three unit seven bedroom building. The addition adds approximately 278 of square feet per floor plate. Right now the three units are approximately 989 square feet each just based upon the size of the floor plates in 989 square feet. The resulting floor plates with the rear addition would be 1267 square feet. How are the plans Mr. Pisani? Any questions from the board? Does anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Is anybody here in opposition? Madam Chair, members of the board, John Allison, mayors, officers, neighborhood services due to this being cited within Article 6,8, even though it is within the interestingly interpreted roof structure restricted section. We cannot go on record in support of this project. We do want to acknowledge there was a community process on this and they did resolve issues with their neighbors. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Paul Sullivan. Okay, so the Council out loud to Michael Flerty. Article 6,8 went through an extensive community process and the Council's approach has been consistent. We cannot support variances however there are times these variances sought to be considered a substantial hardship. Therefore, we would defer to the board's knowledge and wisdom for understanding interpreting the zoning laws as it pertains to unnecessary and unintentional hardships. Thank you. Does anybody here so that's it? May I have a motion please? Motion to the matter with requested BPD exactly. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. You're all set to that for the rise up. Following the next case, calling VOA 756 297 246 248 West Broadway. This is a change of views. Take out, dine in solid restaurant. The premise of application requests for outdoor seating. The violation of Article 68, Section 7. Lodge take out restaurant uses forbidden in the zoning sub-diffic. Article 27, Section 5. In the self-post and iPod applicability. Article 68, Section 7. Restaurant use is conditional. Article 68, Section 8. The Florida Ehraceew is excessive. Extending the restaurant use into the basement. Name and address for the record please. Morning Madam Chair. Members of the Board. My name is George Moranse. I'm an attorney with the business address of 350 West Broadway in self-post and the building in question is a mixed use building at 246 West Broadway. It was approved by this board with the ground floor commercial shell space in September of 2016. The building is now occupied. This is the first tenant proposed for the ground floor commercial space. It is a takeout restaurant used. The name of the restaurant is shredded. It's a salad restaurant. Given the dimensions of the space constitutes a large restaurant or a large takeout under the zoning code because it exceeds 1,000 square feet. It is again the existing square footage of the space that was approved by this board in 2016. The extension comes from an extension of food prep areas to the basement. The basement was originally programmed as storage for the commercial unit. It is still going to be used as storage but there is food prep areas in the basement which creates the additional FAR violation. But the building itself is not being expanded in any way. The violations again are attributable to the fact that it is a large takeout and the fact that it is a restaurant, although the zoning is in fact MFRLS, Multi-Canely Residential Local Service in there. This is West Broadway and the fact of the matter is ground floor commercial uses are certainly preferred I think as a planning matter and I think as in terms of serving the local community. And has the number of seats changed given the expansion of the? There was nothing to change. It was shelf space. So the building was approved by this board in September 2016. Simply is ground floor commercial space unbuilt out. So what are the number of seats being proposed? On the, when sheet A1.1 which is the ground floor plan, there is a dining waiting area. There are five stool seats to the right of the main entrance, five to the left. And it looks like ten seats and then cover the seats. Yeah and then well it's in the left behind the residential area. There's a table and two seats as well. And the signage is going to meet the sign code requirements. The signage will have to comply with the sign code so that would be part of this to be approved of a BRA to work out under its design review. Authority. And my clients and business partners, they have an experienced chef who was aware of takeout requirements in the city of Boston, both by this board and the licensing board and were aware of the provisos that would run with the takeout operation. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the board, John Ellison, Mayors, Office of Neighborhood Services. This is within Article 68 but it is on Broadway, which may be re-zoned at some point. We did have a butters meeting on this and it also went to the St. Vincent's Neighborhood Association. This is a use consistent with what people want to see on Broadway. Thank you. Anybody here to speak in opposition? Madam Chair, members of the board, Paul Sullivan, I have such a constant clash. Michael Flerty, I appreciate your patience with this. The 68 went through an extensive community process and the council's approach has been consistent. We cannot support the variances. However, there are times that these variances saw it, maybe consider a substantial hardship. Therefore, we defer to the boys and all of them wisdom for understanding and interping the zoning laws as it pertains to unnecessary and unintentional hardships. Thank you. May I have a motion, please? All those in favor? Okay. In that second, all those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. You're all set. Thank you. In the next case, calling B.O.A. 7369-352-B. This is a change of act from 10 residential units and two offices to 7 residential units. We renovate the existing building with adding an existing building to increase to FAA2 roof decks, 1 for unit 5 and 1 for unit 7. The violation of Article 15 Section 1 of the Fluteier Ratio is excessive. An Article 32 Section 32-4. G-Cod, groundwater, conservation overlay district. Name and address. Further, I could please. Madam Chair, members of the board, my name is Jessica Camano. I'm an attorney with Paul Simmons-Stores Business Address, 400 Atlantic Avenue, Boston. I'm here today on behalf of the commissioner. Joining me is the developer Scott Daphne of Panji of Management Corporation and John Day of LDA Architecture. We're before the board today because the proposed redevelopment of the property of 52 Beacon Street and the Beacon Hill neighborhood of Boston requires relief in the following manner. We need a conditional use permit for the installation of a groundwater recharge system as a result of the property being located within the groundwater conservation overlay district and a variance to increase the preexisting non-conforming FAAR at the site. Madam Chair, members of the board, Christian Simanelli, Boston groundwater Trust. We do have the approval letter from Boston Water and Sovereign. We do have it. I don't have the plans, Mr. Bazzani. The ratator. Any questions? The board. Is anybody here to speak and support in this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the board, we'd like to go on record and support. Just to go out with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. We held in a butters meeting in which residents came out supporting one another or representing one another and none of them had all the questions and concerns were answered and they were comfortable with the idea they have the owner's contact numbers. So the Beacon-Hosefic Association is also in support of this project. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Tom Clemens representing the Beacon-Hosefic Association. The applicant is engaged in a fairly extensive process with us and the neighbors and while we don't agree with all of the arguments and favour of our variance with respect to some of the additional space. It's all basically enclosed within a brick box at the center of the property has minimal effect on the butters and other agreements that the applicant has made. So we're in support of it and thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Derek Taff, I am an immediate a butter. I have interacted with the group a lot and they've I'm at 51 Beacon Street. They provided us a lot of information and we've worked through a neighbor agreement with the BHA that we think is sufficient to squeeze our concerns so we're supportive of the project. Thank you. May I have a motion please? All those in favour? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. We're all set. Good luck. 749-903-127-Charles Street. This is a change right from a six-apartment dry clean a drop off office space to six-apartment dry clean a drop off and retail store. Replace the existing signage with the same dimension. No work to be done. Violation. Article 8 section 4. A local retail is forbidden in the use of an H265 sub district. Name and address for the record please. Madam Chair, my name is Michael Wiggins from the law firm of Western Patrick and I'm here on behalf of Magdalen McHillis and Alison Darryl. Alison is the tenant who's going to be putting the retail use in this space. This is just simply a change of use from a prior office to retail. There's no structural change whatsoever. It just became apparent that in order to have this use one had to go in front of the civic association and get their support and also to seek a variance. Tell us about this and the Charles. Is there retail uses on the ground floor? Yes there are. Up and down this street. This is not introducing a use that will create more foot traffic in an area that doesn't have it. That's absolutely correct. It just fits in with the existing use in the area. How are the plans, Mr. Pazani? I'll find some records. Any questions from the board? What is the particular code retail use? I'll have Mr. Roy briefly describe it to you. It's basically a clothing store. It's a brand called Paradis. It's a women's clothing brand and all the pieces transition to different articles of clothing. So we can go from one setting to the next. Work out or night out. It will be a very minimalistic setting with a lot of plans. It will be more of a pretty garden-like atmosphere. The destination could be the shop. Is anybody here to speak and support? Madam Chair, members of the board, we would like to go on record and support. We met with the butters and they were all excited about the new trendy outfits and also just having this new space reactivated as a retail store instead of what it was before. So the neighborhood is very excited about having them here. And the Reacon Health Civic Association is also in support. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Kate Bell, on behalf of the City Councilor Josh Seiko. We would also like to go on record and support. Madam Chair, members of the board, Tom Clemens, the Beacon Health Civic Association. I'd like to say that this is the sort of use that we encourage specifically in this ground floor area of Charles Street. And we're enthusiastically in support of the proposals. So thank you. Thank you. We have a motion, please. All those in favor? Any opposed? Motion carries. Good luck. Let's go to the next two cases. Calling BOA 750104126 West Newton Street. There's a companion case on building code, BOA 750103126 West Newton Street. This is a reconstruct and enlarge an existing access, hatchway, and roof tech and constructed rear deck. The violation dot equals 64, section 9. Extension to re-add the balcony above the first floor is conditionally used and shall require relief from the zoning boat of appails. Be with me on the building code. There's quite a few of them. And I'm going to try to minimize the fast as I can. Violation date 780CMI chapter 10s means of egress to violation. Penthouse head house required the roof access. Hold on. Hold on. That is fortunate. Are you still going to be requesting all that building code relief? Yes. You are. Yes. I'm not a chair. It's a breakdown of that patch versus a head house. And then just going through the various components. Then we need to read it in the record. Sorry, Mr. Fortune. That's okay. I'll try to like I say minimize to the points here, the bullet points. Stay away to roof and build in four more stories above grade. Plane on one stay away shall extend to the roof surface unless the roof of a slope is steeper than four units vertical or 12 units horizontal. Root access where your stay away is provided to a roof access to the roof shall be provided to a penthouse. Eighth edition chapter 10 means of egress violation. The stay ahead room obstructed by the hatch. 1 0 0 9.2 stay away shall have a minimum head room clearance of 80 inches. Chapter 780 chapter 10 means of egress violation of handrails do not extend and terminate as required at 10 12.6 to handrail extension. Handrails shall return to a wall, God or walking surface or shall be continuous to the handrail of an adjacent stiff like or ramp run. Where stay rails are not continuous between flights, the handrails shall extend horizontally at least 12 inches beyond the top riser. Means of egress violation due to the hatch the handrail will not be able to be continuous even if added to comply with 10 12.6. The handrail gripping surface shall be continuous without interrupted nul post or other obstructions. Means of egress violation, God or required around the hatch or all open sides. And glass and glazing safety glazing shall be required for a hatch where glass is used. Name and address for the record please. John Moran Alpine Advisory Services Alpine Way with me is the developer of this legone. Madam Chair, may I address the building code violations first? Please. Mr. Pazani, I have submitted a copy of the slides of the Sullivan Code Group presentation of the state building code addition chapter 11. This is the Sullivan Code. This is a historic structure or simply within the Sullivan Code. It's within the historic district. It's as shown in the exhibit of the assesses map. It is a portion of a row house assembly and it is a contributing structure to the historic district. And as such under section 308 of chapter 11 dealing with historic structures, the state building code does not require compliance with the provisions relating to in this case a headhouse versus a hatch. The building itself is two and a half stories two units. If two units the building itself measured from curb at grade is two three and a half stories. It's not a full forceful rebuilding. I have submitted photographs of similar installations by this developer. The stairway is continuous with the continuation of the hatch. The hatch does open swings over not up. What is familiar with this and familiar with the exemption to the law of this? I'll make a motion to grant the relief question. The branch will be in code relief for five seconds. There is a second part to it. That is the part with the treatment of the glazing for the hatch. You have to apply that. The hatch will allow the hatch rather than the headhouse. But you have to apply with the fire rate and the requirements which means that you have to put the fire rate in the hatch. Does that mean you are denying the chapter 24 glass and glazing violations? Yes, we are denying glass and glazing which is going to comply with it. How about that? You are going to comply with the code relative to glass and glazing by making it fire rate. Correct. Sarah, second. All those in favor? All right. Any opposed? Okay. So let's then get to the meat of the matter. Can you speak about the appeal that you have for us? The appeal is for a conditional use permit to erect to the rear of the building a re-added which will project six feet supported by brackets. I have support letters from the Rutland Square Association. Support letters from both immediate abutters. There was a community meeting organized by the mayor's office. Those in attendance were unanimously in support of the project. He is a known developer having developed on the street before and he received the endorsement of the community. How are the plans with the design? I'm very sorry. Any questions from the board? Does anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Good afternoon. Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is face Shreve Mayer's Office of Neighborhood Services. We did hold in a butters meeting in which the neighborhood association, President was available. All of the butters were in support of the project. Their concerns were heard and we'd like to go on record and support as well. Thank you. Ms. Mariah, I guess I have one question. Mr. Rann, would you not run back to our W Assault? This just pulled out a file. I do not know. But is where they came up? I believe so. Is anybody here to speak in opposition? May I have a motion? Madam Chair, if I may just add, the property is visible on a landmarks jurisdiction both front and rear due to the library park. Thank you. May I have a motion please? All those in favor? Aye, aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. You're all set. Good luck. Thank you. The following next case, calling B.O.A. 756-475-80-82-Summistry. This is a change used from office space on the fourth floor to a one bedroom apartment. The violation is Article 13, Section 13-1, usable open spaces and sufficient. Name and address for the record please. Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board, my name is Chris Donnelly. I'm an attorney with Scofield Vogue Group of 29 Commonwealth Avenue. With me today is the applicant, Christopher Knight of 80-Summistry. Now, let's look at the screen proposed. The property at 80-Summistry is a five-unit condominium building. The subject property is unit four on comprising the fourth floor of that building. The applicant proposes to convert that from an office space to a one bedroom residence. The applicant didn't receive a refusal letter due to insufficient usable open space. So, I'm sorry. So, this five-unit condo is in a residential condo and office condo. Thank you for having, Madam Chair. It's a mixed-use condominium. Presently, there are three commercial units, or three units used for commercial purposes, and two residential units, including units three and unit five, which are above and below the subject property here. As I was saying, this was said for insufficient usable open space. Unfortunately, there is no open space on this property, which could be used by the occupant of this unit. The building comprises the entire footprint of the lot. There is a roof deck, but it's only accessible from unit five, not accessible from unit four. And how large is this proposed one bedroom? It's about 2,200 square feet, Madam Chair. How are the plans Mr. Buzani? The plans are adequate. Any questions from the board? Anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the board, Madam Chair, the board, Madam Chair, the mayor's office, the neighborhood services, would like to welcome the recommended supported. Thanks. Madam Chair, members of the board, Eric White on behalf of City Council, at large, I am impressedly. We would like to welcome the recommended supported. Madam Chair, members of the board, Paul Sullivan. We have the Councilor Lachlan, Michael Flerdy. Councilor Gondrich, the board. Thank you. Anybody here who speak in opposition? May I have a motion, please? Motion for approval. Second. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries, or else set? Thank you, Madam Chair. Calling the OA72007134 Gladstone Street. This is the remodeling, existing finish basement, converting from one family to a two family, and remodeling kitchen and bathroom, via Lisa's Article 53 Section 9, insufficient open space per unit. Name and address for the record, please. Roger, Chair. Onward, Roger, human food, minute, design, 36, have a little math, lend math, and chooses, of this kind of passage to my partner. Madam Chair, members of the board, Viviana Gonzales-Viana, and I'm the designer for this project. We are seeking a relief for insufficient open space per unit, where this is a conversion of one family to a two family, on a load of 4,314 square feet, and around 543 square feet that are available for open space. So, one minute, tell us about this. So, this is to extend to finish the basement, and is that where the second unit is going to be? The basement is finished, you can tell you in a kitchen, a bathroom, and two bedrooms, but it's part of the rest of the house. And the owner wants to convert this to a two family. The basement is at ground level, and all the windows are above ground, and there are windows that are about 42 inches from the ground. And how large is each unit having a square feet? The basement is 1,295 square feet. How are the plants, Mr. Pazani? The ones are adequate. What's the Florida ceiling height in the basement? A2. A2. And how is the basement separated from the other unit? There is an increase on the side of the house, and we are proposing the second means of a grace also on the other side of the unit as a second means of a grace. Do a window. Can you tell him which plant to look at? I see the proposed basement plan, and it has an exterior door. Yes. And it has a door that goes up, but I don't see the window on the side. This is the first floor plan. From A2. This is the first floor and the second floor. Okay. It works. They have different separation, so it's fine. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak and support of this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the board, John Alice and Mayor's Office at Neighborhood Services, on behalf of his use Garcia, I would like to go on record and support. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Is anybody here to speak in opposition? May I have a motion, please? All those in favor? Aye. Motion carries. You're all set. Good luck. The case calling B.O.A. 755-224, step 47-51-Webster Street. This is a change of use of one office space to a residential unit. The directive to be formed, occupancy will be a restaurant in Baja with roof deck and dining. Yoga Studios Fitness Center, professional uses in five apartments. No new sprinkler work or revised fire alarm layout. Violation is article 9, section 2. Change of use of a mixed use to include a fifth residential unit and a three-family sub-district is conditional. Article 53, section 9, insufficient open space for a dwelling unit. And Article 53, section 56, insufficient fire. Namely, that address for the record, please. Good afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the board. Richard Lins, 1216, Bedding Street East Boston. On behalf of the petitioner with me is Phil Fratteroli, who is the principal of the entity that owns the property and operative the current restaurant. This board may remember that back in March of 2015, this board granted relief to change the occupancy of a former industrial site to a mixed use building with a restaurant, yoga studio and residential mixed use above. That building has been completed and is operational. Part of the proposal originally involved using a portion of the space and the upper level for dedicated office space. The other office space would be used to operate the restaurant to serve as an office for the restaurant. Based upon the design during construction, it was determined that that space would no longer be necessary. Mr. Fratteroli has looked at the possibility of continuing to use that for rentable office space. It's not necessarily feasible unless you are operating something in the building that doesn't necessarily set up very well to operate as an independent office space for a third party. The proposal is to change that space from an office used to a residential use. It would be a studio size unit about 555 square feet. We did have the opportunity to go back before the neighborhood and present this to the neighborhood association who supported it wholeheartedly. The restaurant has been a very welcome addition to the neighborhood and the use that is alive in that section of Orleans Street is something that has been a very positive impact on that section of the Jeffries Point neighborhood. The only reason you are here is to con the conversion of the office space to residential use. That is correct. The letter from the Jeffries Point neighborhood association which will come later is there is also a proposal to add outdoor dining. That is also supportive but we understand that's a process with public improvement commission. But that's a separate appeal that will come to us when it comes to us. How many residential units will be in this building assuming that this gets approved? Total of five. Five residential units and the dining. Dining and then the second level is a yoga studio. How are the plans Mr. Bazzani? The grand round. Any questions from the board? This residential unit will be at the ground level and it's open on the street. Fourth level. Ground level is the restaurant. Second. Okay. I have a question on the description of the area on the express. Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the board, John Alice and Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. On behalf of Haysoon Scarsillo, we'd like to go on record and support. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, John Alice and Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. Madam Chair, members of the board, Paul Sullivan. On behalf of the council, I'd like to make a clarity. Councilor Hito and recommend to go on record and support. Madam Chair, members of the board, Jessica, I'd like to go on record and support. Madam Chair, members of the board, John Alice and Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. I'd like to go on record and support. Thank you. Is anybody here to speak in opposition? We have a motion, please. Motion to approve. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries your all-sector's lunch. Thank you very much. The following meetings. Questions calling POA 735026438 River Street. This is changed in the occupancy for one day care center and body art scholar, in unit one, no signage on this application. No work to be done other than painting. The violation is article 60 section 40. Hacking is insufficient. Article 60 section 8. Body art is forbidden. Name and address to the record, please. My name is Eric James. Adjus is 4300-400-2-9. High-part Massachusetts. He would defer because there was some confusion in the neighborhood. Yes. You had your community meeting. Tell us what happened. Yes, everyone voted or gave me support to open up a tattoo parlor in Maddie Pian Square. Okay. And again, just remind us how large is this facility or how small is it? How many square feet? I believe it's about 1200 square feet, about three studios inside, separate office in a separate bathroom for the clients. Okay. How was the plan to miss the Pazani? The grand drive. Any questions from the board? There was an issue when you came before as to present occupancy of some of the issues that I wasn't properly introduced to the neighborhood. And it was a lack of communication between the neighborhood and my business. And that's why we did another butters meeting so I can present myself properly to the neighborhood, which I did. And they gave me support. Does anybody here just speak in support of this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is Whitney Celestin. From the mayor's office of neighborhood services, we support this project. Good afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the board. As it stated, he had another meeting. We were able to ask all the questions, satisfy all the needs. So we'd like to go on record and support. Madam Chair, members of the board. Joanne Schien's District Force City Council, Laundry. A campus office, we would like to go on record and support. Thank you. Does anybody here just speak in opposition? We forgot to ask you, what's your signage going to look like? As a right now, I'm kind of doing the designs for the logos and things like that. So I guess when I redesign them, I'm going to then create a sign and go ahead of you again to get approval. May I have a motion, please? Motion approval. Second. All those in favor. Thank you. Any opposed? We're outside. Good luck. Thank you. Calling your next case. Calling B-O-A-715-525-729-731-850. Mr. DeRenovane, the existing two-failing and added a third floor addition. The violation of Article 68, Section 29, move structure restricted district. Name and address for the record, please. Moin, Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is James Christopher, the business of dress of 415-apartment-AV, RCA, LLC with the project architects. I'm going to go ahead. What you're proposing and why you would defer. Excuse me. We were proposing to renovate an existing two-failing in South Boston on East Fifth Street, increased living space in the basement and extended living space to a new Penn House addition. We deferred at the last hearing as we had met with the neighbors and they were concerned about the size of the addition. We met again with the neighbors. We reduced the side of the third-story Penn House and set it back 15 feet from the front of the building. I also have for the record 50 bonus to support from my butters. And we've also committed to the neighbors to remove the proposed roof deck as they saw that as a potential has a problem later. So tell us what is this now? Tell us the size of the units. So the unit one which consists of first floor and basement is 1,988 square feet. Unit two, the total gross is 1,952 square feet. And tell us the floor to ceiling height in the basement. And we'll finish out at 7 foot 11. So this is still showing us up here. It does have roof deck, right up to our last meetings with the group last night. And I did have time to revise the plans. But we would certainly delete it based on our commitment to the about us. Okay. How was the plan for designing the drive-drector? Any questions from the board? Does anybody here just speak in support of this proposal? Good afternoon. My name is Nicole Huffner. I live at 723 East Biff Street. So to the immediate west of this project, I had opposed the original presentation that you made. But I'm very comfortable with the modifications. I think they're very thoughtful in response to my concerns and the other neighbor concerns. I'm comfortable with the new project. Thank you. Does anybody here just speak in, are you speaking in support? Okay. You need that mic. Now I own the building at 719 East Biff Street right next door. Well, two buildings down. Or supporting the project. Okay. Thank you. Does anybody here just speak in opposition? Madam Chair, members of the board, John Allison mayors office of the Maybirth Services. Because this was cited within Article 68, we cannot go on record in support. However, I do want to acknowledge that at the first meeting there were concerns about the size of the addition of the proponents. Set it back 15 feet, which appeased many people. They've also committed to removing the roof deck, which addressed almost all of the concerns that were raised. So this is a project that went from having very limited to support to now having a fair amount of support. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Paul Sullivan, the Head of City Council, I lodge Michael Flairty. Article 68 with the coming through an extensive community process and the council's approach has been consistent. We cannot support variances, however, there are times that these variances may be considered a substantial high check. Therefore, would you defer the boys' knowledge and wisdom for understanding interpreting zoning laws as their pertains to the unnecessary and unintentional high checks? Thank you for that. Knowledge and wisdom. We appreciate that. May I have a motion, please? Motion to approve. Do you have to, we need to continue BPA design review? Yeah. We did, no. But this is the signature to do now until we have the revised up drawings. So I'm going to make a motion. Oh, that's up, that's up, that's up. The revised drawing is a 15 foot setback as shown on the... I approve that. It includes the roof deck, but it will delete it for the revised. Thank you. Okay, thank you. Dave, do I, what's our motion? I had a motion, yes. What was it? My motion was to grant the relief. Then there was some added language that says that we're going to wait for signature until that the roof decks are deleted. I think that's enough. That's it? Okay. Any opposed? Motion carries. You're all set. I think it's your time. Calling the next case, calling BOA 692 071265 Webster Street. This is a change of arcs from a three family dwelling to a four unit dwelling. Renovate, direct the vertical addition and extend living space in the basement and upper addition with deck. Violates, vertical 53, section 8. Multi-family is forbidden. Vertical 53, section 9. Ladiary, traditional dwelling units insufficient. Vertical 53, side diodes insufficient. Vertical 53, FAR is excessive. Vertical 53, section 9. Open spaces insufficient. Vertical 53, build their height is excessive. Vertical 53, section 9. Number of stories is excessive. Vertical 53, section 56. Packing is insufficient. Name and address. Will the record be? Good afternoon, Madam Chair and members of the Board. Richard Lynn's 1216, Betty's in Street, East Boston. On behalf of the petitioner with me, Sarah Cooney, the property owner. A few housekeeping items to eliminate some of these violations. When this permit was originally filed, the rejection letter indicated that this was only three family dwelling. We had a number of conversations with the inspection services department. I provided a copy of the certificate of use and occupancy showing this is a four unit dwelling and was a lawful four unit dwelling for some time. That would eliminate Madam Chair for the record, the multi-family use for bitten violation, as well as the lot area for each additional dwelling unit violation, the open space and sufficient violation, as well as the parking and sufficient because each of those would be pre-existing non-conformities that were not proposed in a change. Open space parking and a lot area to put the dwelling in it. And use. And so this evidence is based on taxes on what's on some. The history of the building jacket, history of use and use being shown as a full four unit dwelling for some use for some time. And as you can see, the certificate was issued September of 16. We have. It's not for purpose of the appeal already being in process. This is already issued sort of in conjunction with this process. So our position is we do not require relief for those items that have been cited. That usually catches up after if the board makes a determination that we have to deal with that. So what's left then? So. So we keep because of what we're proposing with respect to the vertical addition, the side yard would still remain insufficient because we are within the two and a half foot setback. The FAR being excessive because of the extension of a living space. The building height would be excessive because of the pre-existing condition and the modification that we're proposing. The number of stories is a question mark. However, I would ask that the board consider that for purpose of relief if they're going to grant relief simply because the number of stories would be altered if we go ahead with the proposed modification. To me and a half to four stories. Three and three quarters. I would call it. Let's call it. Let's call it for for the sake of. Call it for. Okay. What's required and what's proposed? One point. Oh, would be the required FAR. RFA R proposes 1.45. Okay. How are the plans? I just want to make one modification. The reason we're back here from deferral Madam Chair. We did have an opportunity to present this is the Jeffers Point Neighbor Association. The original plan I believe Mr. Pazani is looking at was supported generally by the community. We went through the abouters process. We did hear a number of concerns relative to the roof profile and the full build out of that roof was somewhat of a concern. So we had gone back and modified that. I do have a set of plans which I can provide the board with the full set for stamp that actually sets back the vertical addition and squares it off. I know there isn't a butter here who is present the direct butter across the street who had a specific concern about height. So I'm going to give you a set of plans. I'm going to give you a set of plans. I'm going to give you a set of plans. I'm going to give you a set of plans. I'm going to give you a set of plans. I'm going to give you a set of plans. I'm going to give you a set of plans. I'm going to give you a set of plans. I'm going to give you a set of plans. I'm going to give you a set of plans. I'm going to give you a set of plans. I'm going to give you a set of plans. I'm going to give you a set of plans. I'm going to give you a set of plans. The rear left side. So it's existing condition of residential now, one unit. Now the plans is designed. The plans are adequately. There's any questions from the board. It looks like the utility room is accessed, and then it's separate from the unit. Any thoughts from the board? Anybody here speak and support in this proposal. Madam Chair, members of the Board, John Ellis and Mayors of the Neighborhood Services, and behalf of Paisoos Garcia, we'd like to go on record and support. Thank you, is anybody here to speak in opposition? Madam Chair, members of the Board, my name is Robert Macellas, and I live at 258, perhaps the street. That's directly across the street from this project, and I face the project. The original complaint was the height of the building, and was going to be apparently five feet higher than the proposal that they have now. So they've scaled back their proposal so that the building is only as high as the peak of the roof now. So they're going to flatten that out, flatten that off, and that's going to be the height of the building. The building is not going to exceed its present height as I understand it. What's your opposition? My view. My third floor residence looks directly out, and there's a horizontal line, if you see, in the plans there. And that horizontal line is above the other buildings next to it. So that building already exceeds the, I guess, the current legal height. So they're going to go 10 feet above that horizontal line. So now apparently it's just about five feet above that horizontal line to the peak of the roof. So it's a view. My complaint is the view from my third floor window, and I do have an approved roof deck. It also obstructs the view from my roof deck. Thank you. Thank you. I have to speak in opposition. Given that information, may I have a motion, please? I think a motion to approve with continued BPDA design review. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries to back the vise over. Good luck. Thank you very much. Following your next case, calling BOA 754-990-124-Devon Street. This is parking for two vehicles. The Violation Dautical 10, Section 1. Proposed parking is within five feet of the side lot line. The Viol 50, Section 43. The proposed tandem parking has limited maneuverability. An Article 50, Section 43, dimension to the proposed parking space is in position. Name and address for the record, please. Good afternoon. My name is INS God. I'm going to 24, Devon. The place, tell us what you're proposing. Just for the parking space, that's it. I need, I suppose, really, some reason. I'm not supposed to bring it up. It doesn't show up yet. I don't know what happens. So, you fold it up on the screen. So it looks like there is no cub cut there. But you're going to be requesting a cub cut? Yes, please. And how are the plans, Mr. Bizani? The plan will do Boston Sauriv for the water time. And they will move further, 7 months for public working. Same July 17, it will be approved. The issue here is that it's only 8.2 feet from the edge of your property to the property line. From the edge of your house to the property line. Do you already park cars there? No, RSI. Because it's not public park. If I park, if somebody is going to block me, I can come out. I can do that. So that we're looking at Google Earth and it looks like there's a car in there. So you've managed to fit it in. They fit in a key four car last year for Thanksgiving. It was my daughter. It was in front of the driver. And my son, bringing the car in because there's no back in space in the night. I used to be a dinner because it was my daughter in the back. If somebody else is a pack, I can't do that. So you're requesting two parking spaces. How many units in the building? Two. Family? Yes. Any questions from the board? Does anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Madam Chairman, Mr. the board. Consumer Factory's office and neighborhood services to go embark on this project. The applicant has met direct to the deutlich and has a garners that are supported from them as well. Really agreed to support this? Madam Chairman is to the board to join on the skins. We would vote on Council Chairman Campbell's office to support the Internet. Anyone who's after the board. I will make sure that Punish Reality P'll symbolizes emotion policy and constitutional laws. The motion to approve. Second. On motion favor. Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. You're all set. Madam Chair, before we go to the inter- Thank you. Before we go to the interpretation. All set, ma'am. Thank you. And the court remain. I need you to go back to do some housekeeping here. In the extensions, case BOA, 444-3619, 33 Kirkwood Road. It was withdrawn. So I'm going to make a motion for denial with our prejudice. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Madam Chair, I don't know if we want to go to this now or we can go to it after the beep. Let's take care of all housekeeping here. Okay. So we're going to go back to case BCC-330-82, 2717-2719, Washington Street. We did have on file that the application expired this year. We had an old piece of paper that we were going by, but Council found the new letter. So we denied this applicant and we should not have because she was within the parameters. So whoever made the motion, I would hope could rescind the emotion and we could grant this woman this applicant and a one-year extension. This is 22. Okay. I don't know who made the... So can somebody withdraw that case? Mr. Pazali, I think it was you. I was from Ireland. And can I have a second on that? All those in favor? Aye. Now may I have a new motion? Motion for approval. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. That's it on House cleaning, right? Correct. Now we'll take a... Now we'll go back. Let's take a break. Okay. Let's take a break until 1021. Okay, we're adjourned until both 50. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. The Board of Appeals for October 31st is back in session. Just a reminder. Make sure your cell phones are off. And let's get to work. The next case is a court remand. The parking lot motor vehicles for repeat. The violation of 5 plus 6, 3, 6, 7, use of regulation. The court remand. The court remand that this matter to the city of Boston. The board of appeal for rehearing. Name and address for the record please. My name is Paula Debroman. I'm in the Reuben and Rubin. I'm here on behalf of Stewart Acquisition 22 LLC. With me is Peter Spellios. With Stewart Acquisition LLC. So this appeal is at 222 Stewart Street. And it is for use of the property on a temporary basis for two years for surface parking, for fee paid surface parking for 20 vehicles. For 20 vehicles. And what does temporary mean? Excuse me? What does temporary mean? For two years. So this board in August of 2017 approved on this parcel as well as adjacent parcels. A larger 19 story building. That approval was appealed. And while that appeal is pending, my client is seeking to continue the temporary use for parking. And we hope it's no longer than two years. It could be shorter if the appeal is resolved before then. So just let's backtrack. Was the parking that the park has the parking use expired? Yes. So the parking use is expired. So what happened was as a prior owner, Vesilius cuts them. I cannot pronounce his name. Cuts them. Paul Terrace had used that area for surface parking for many years, I think, dating back to the 1960s. He came to the board in December 2014 for permission to extend that use. Unfortunately, I believe that the neighbors may have had some issues with that. And he had not done what he said he was going to do. With respect to landscaping or maintaining the parking lot. So this board denied it. He then appealed it. Since that time, Stuart acquisition 22 LLC, my client has bought the property and has stepped into issues in the appeal. My client seeks to do the things that the prior owner wouldn't do to maintain. I can, Madam Chair. We've been working with the Bay Village Neighborhood Association to refresh that list. But the list includes a number of items. The first being install a permanent blockade on the Shaman street of the property. So cars can't pull from Stuart Street through the parking lot on to Shaman Street. Right now, there's just a chain link fence that a chain that occasionally gets taken down. Which we are fine with. Secondly, there's old donage for a sign that's no longer there that sits on top of the roof of the building. And right now, it's just a rusted frame. And we've agreed to remove that frame. ISD won't give us the requisite permits unless we have approval in the first instance from this board. Furthermore, one of the changes relates to maintaining the landscaping, removing rotted landscape barriers and buckets and do seasonal plannings to do weeding to do graffiti removal and file the necessary certifications with the city of Boston to allow them. If there's a report of graffiti to do graffiti removal and bear with me and I will make sure I didn't miss anything, Madam Chair. Along the Stuart Street frontage. I mean, what does that mean? Does the plans indicate the extent of the proposed screening and buffering? Yeah, so it's right now there's a series on the Church Street Plaza, which is the western side of the property. There are some planters on the south side, which is the Shaman Street property, which have planters which have fallen into district pair in decay. And we would be replacing those that are there today with the plantings. And forgive me a moment. You may. It is how we use the parking lot. It is. It's been continuously used as a 20 space parking lot. So it's been illegally used then since 2014 as a parking garage. We have had licenses from BTD to use it, pending the appeal, resolution of the appeal, and then the reman came back here for us to resolve with finality, if you will. The appeal that was outstanding by our predecessor in title. I don't know about even though we denied the previous on operator, the use of that lot in 2014 has been continuously used since 2014. Well, we acquired in late 2015, so I can't speak to prior to that, but I believe the answer prior is yes. And since we have had a parking license to do so from BTD. And we had a parking license and you were aware that you did not have the zoning in place to do that. I, I, I, we were aware that the appeal was taken and working with the city. Understood that we would need to resolve the appeal, but in the interim we're allowed to continue the parking permit appeal. And then how about lighting? Are you proposing lighting to? We are not proposing any lighting on the lot. Different than what's there today. And you're still proposing 20 spaces. Correct. And those are, will there be somebody on site? Correct. This is a, a manned parking lot. At all times it's opened. At the hours of operation? I believe the hours of operation are 6 a.m. to 11 p.m. Okay. Now the plans are spasani. We're going to have any. I have a site plan that shows where the spaces are. I can know it. Can you please break them out and leave those plans? First was the site plan that was filed with the original application. Do you have a copy of the license that you've been using and working on this? Yes, I have. I have this. And you're proposing any changes to the original application? Correct. I mean, you know what's interesting, right? This is this original site plan that goes back to 1986. So what we're basically doing is every time someone comes to force, a perclot, you never come to know for screen puffer. You never get it. Yeah, it's never memorialized. And this seems to show that there's some logic rather than at all to an in and out. But it looks like it's a flat, straight, huge cup cup. I kind of tell who did the design review in 2000. Thank you. Okay. Is anybody here to speak and support of this proposal? Is anybody here to speak in opposition to this proposal? Is anybody here from the mayor's office to speak either in support or in opposition? No. Is anybody from the community here to speak and support or in opposition? Do you have a committee process on this? We have been working with the BVNA executive committee on formulating the list that I articulated to you, Madam Chair, as to the continuation of this. The BVNA, as you may be called when we heard earlier this year, supported the project which currently is under appeal, and understand that we didn't purchase this property to park cars that we intend to proceed with the project as soon as it's feasible to resolve the appeal and move forward with the project. So I'm clear that assuming the appeal is resolved fairly, then park people and park people. Correct. Okay. That's something else on that side. Correct. Okay. And if you don't have any chance of a timeframe, I'll let you. We're in the very beginning stages. We're hopeful that it's in short order, but I would be purely guessing for you. You are to get what you hope for to say how long are you looking for the decision to come to the far from the front. A two-year window period, which we think is relatively appropriate given the length of what appeals can take. Chair, I do the things that you committed to a great deal regardless of the length of time. We are. We actually agreed to all those knowing that it would be a limited period of time, and we're willing to do what do all those. There's a part of me that's, and maybe it's just today, but there's a part of me that's a little bit frustrated. Okay. Because you're working up. You do have a permit, but you're working up on something that we rejected. You know what I mean? You came in front of us with a huge project that we approved. Correct. And now, meanwhile, knowing that you were acting against our wishes. So I'm a little bit frustrated by this. So respectfully, the comments. I will add to, I'm going to just jump in what Craig just said, too, is that you own the species of property for two years, and you've not brought it to its best, highest and best appearance and navely, navely-ness. Because I know you had a project that you were anticipating construction, but in the meantime, you were running this use in the same fashion that it had been run in the past. They did. I respectfully, my client did try to get a permit for my SD to do some of the work that would have been made it look nicer. But while the appeal was pending in court, ISD couldn't and wouldn't issue a permit for that. So they have tried and they were focusing really on the new project because that was. So after your project that we approved went into appeal. You then appeal to ISD, correct? No. When did you appeal to ISD before the project? In 2016, we filed for a building permit with ISD to do certain repairs that I've articulated today, including the Donage and ISD. Although ISD did not issue that permit because of the pending appeal. And so we couldn't move forward with the appeal. Correct. Not an appeal with you. We filed with ISD for a building permit to do those repairs. Okay. Okay. So let's just look at how we can, in the meantime, take a bad situation and figure out the next steps. Okay. So it sounds to me before any motion is made that in fact you can at least do us provide us the respect by providing an updated plan that actually shows what your intentions are. This is what it is, but show us something that actually puts in the public screen on showroom it. Whatever happens on church, if there's a way of limiting that coach cut on Stuart. We know this is considered temporary, but in the meantime you can in fact be a good neighbor, not only for the residents, but to the city of Boston. All of us will walk up and down that street. So those are the things I think that would make some sense as we think about our motion motion. So can I hear from somebody on the board? No, I guess. I would make a motion to grant a three-year extension with the vote by the委. Hold on a second, Mark. If I could just say, it's good till June 30th of 2018, that's a stands right now. So you're going to make a two-year extension. That's for the BTT, but it's not for us. Correct. No, no, I understand that. But it does say June of 2018. Yes. So I guess the other confusion is this too, is that this plan that we have is outdated. And it shows parking with four spots up front, and this is not how the parking is set up. Correct. That is actually how parking is currently set up on the property. Now, I apologize. We didn't keep a copy of what you're looking at, so I'm not looking at something. Take a look at this copy, and you tell me that this is how it's set up. Well, we have a Google on the property. Yeah, you know, I understand that. I just want to research. It's just different. Yep. So what happens with, right? So this reflects the 20 spaces. The way in which cars are parked today, in part, depends on the type of cars that are there. So the way in which is now is it is five lanes of parking that it is tandem parking, so therefore they're moved. So I can't speak as I'm not the day-to-day parking operator. But on a daily basis, if there's capacity, it's some very close version to this, because they are tandem long head in parking spaces. So what will change here now is that they won't be able to go through Shamba Street. They will have to now, the parking operator will valet them out of the parking lot. The way it goes now is six rows. They're closest to the little house. Fair enough. So we have no problem getting you that updated plan. So we're having an issue here because everything is as about as clear as mud. So we're going to perhaps, the next thing, this is the playlist, the next time. So you have clear documents that we can work with that show exactly what your intentions are. That is more than this. Is the agreement that you have available as folks in ready? We are putting it in writing with Bay Village and we have no problems submitting that to you as well. Okay, so let's take a motion for deferral. I'll show you drawings over like the concerns that you have today. Is there a motion? Is there a second? Second. All those in favor? Hi. Can you pose the date please? We can do the 12th of December. That's fine. Okay, see you then. Thank you very much. That was a good presentation you made to the BSA. Thank you. Thank you. The next case on the interpretation calling VOA 738-12014 Thomas Barrett. The petitioner seeks to determination that inspection service department and an issue in the permit. The permit was issued as an allowed use. I have an amendment. All right. Karen here is 7th and 7th Street. Diane Clark-Dellin-Hanty 13th and 7th Street. Sorry, so you are the one who put in the interpretation. Who is the property owner against whom this petitioner's foot is placed? You are the ones who have a seat at the table. Okay, so this... Okay, will everybody put their name and address on the record please? Joshua, why don't you start? Joshua Barrett will be on the front of Thomas Barrett. Okay, any other property owner? Yes. Okay. Diane Clark-Dellin-Hanty 13th Pacific Street across the street from the driveway. Okay. Karen Carey 7th Pacific Street. My name is George Moranse. I'm an attorney with the business address of 350 West Broadway in South Boston. I represent Joshua Barlow, the property owner of 14 Thomas Barrett. Okay. So this is my appeal. Okay. So this is the appeal. So my goal here is to... This is an interpretation. And what do you say? How did ISDR in this? Go ahead, yes. Thank you so much. So that's my goal here because we had a... A but is meeting in February. At the about is meeting the owner's 14 Thomas Pock asked that they could have a curb cut. So they could park their two cars. That was it. That was their only request. They said they weren't going to touch the deck. They weren't going to touch the stairs. They needed parking for just their two cars. So the about is in the... That were at the meeting. Had a lot of concerns and said no, we don't approve of this. We won the support of the mayor's office. We were in touch with the Mayor's office, Councillor Flare's office. We had support of everyone. We... The about is... Sent letters to say that we were in opposition. Then at the meeting on April 13th, testimony was given by the attorney from 14 Thomas Pock, Mr. Mahoney. And at that meeting, Mr. Mahoney stated Mr. Biles' mother with ALS, who does not live in Boston, I will be moving in part time. The about is never heard that at the February meeting. Mr. Mahoney also said that the reason why they wanted parking in the rear because there was accurate access. So, man, so... Where there is none. So ISD are in issuing the two parking spaces? Is that what they... Is that what they did? Yes, they did. So you approved. Is the school approved that... Okay. Approved what he wanted. But the thing is, you were given false information like we were never told of his mother moving in part time. But you were told about the two parking spaces. The request for two parking spaces. Yes, sir. And you were opposed to it and this for approved it. Okay, so that's what your concern is. Is the two parking spaces? No, my concern is that the decision was made arbitrarily. There was a mother with ALS that will be moving in part time. No, no. No, our decision would be because we're cognizant of the fact that what we approved goes with the property and not with the current ownership. We also asked that the variances would remain to be upheld and you know, that's a tangible thing that we were asking for and that we had support from City Hall. We had all this support. And at the meeting in April, you were told that the rear head at grade access to the house. It does not have at grade access. It goes into the sub basement. He still would have to take a set of stairs. His mother to go up to the living space. Just the same as if he got a handicap parking spot in front for his mother. He would have to take a flight of stairs to get up to his living area. Okay. We lost a visitor parking. That was our visitor parking area. We lost that when he put the driveway in. And you know, we lost a parking visit. Crosswalk at the corner. We lost where the driveway is plus the curb cut. So while they gained two spots, we lost two spots from that. So it wasn't an even exchange. Okay. So your concern is the parking, the fact that this board approved it, etc. Okay. I have another concern that I'd like to address. Sure. And you are... 13 Diane. Clark Delhanty at 13 Pacific Street. So you're at 13, your sister's at 7. Stayed again. And you're at 7. 7. Okay. Go ahead. What's the second concern? Mine is the safety concern. There's a lot of traffic, both pedestrian and vehicle traffic in that area. The driveway is not far from the... From Thomas Park on to Pacific Street. It's a quick turn. There's a lot of traffic now. There's buses that go down there. And there's a national park that's up at the hill. So there's a lot more foot traffic and vehicle traffic, as well as industry. Vehicles. Our house at 13 Pacific Street was actually hit by a car years ago. That chance of it getting hit again has increased. I'm concerned because when they go in or back out of their driveway, there's going to be more people at risk. I feel more at risk being in our home. I'm sure there's no intention of increasing the risk of people and vehicles around. But I hope not. But there is an increase of an accident or a pedestrian getting hurt. The May I add, I'm sorry. Also at the April meeting, they said there were 76 direct-to-bodies that were in approval. When I went to Flarey's office to get copies of all the abut is fought for. The abut is a non-direct and the 20 some odd that were a direct abut is one was a high school student who lives with his parents. And the other ones were under the impression that Mr. Bollow's mother would be moving in. So at a sympathy, they agreed with him. But we never knew that. The direct abut is never knew that. And the people that signed were not at the meeting in February when it was never said that he needed it for a hardship. He never mentioned a hardship at all. And that would have been the time. But he should have mentioned that hardship at the February abut is meeting. He had ample opportunity. All he said was he wants parking for his cause. Which I cannot blame him. I would love parking also. It's extremely tight. My mother has a lupus and she lives at three Pacific Street. She doesn't even have a handicap spot because it's tough to get anything approved. She lost a lot and he gained parking for his cause because that's what we're going under because that's what we were told in February's meeting. And it increases the value of his house and decreases the value of my house because there's less parking in front of my house. And it'll increase that property tax. Thank you. Thank you so much. Ms. Marancy, you're the attorney for the property owner. That's correct. So please tell us why ISD did not earn issuing this permit. Most fundamentally ISD did not earn issuing the permit because it has not even been alleged quite frankly that ISD aired at any way an issue with the permit. There are two mechanisms under the code or more appropriately the enabling act for being an appellant or petitioner for this board. The section A of the enabling act section 11 of the enabling act section 8 is why most matters. I'm sorry section 11 is why most matters before this board. That's the mechanism whereby a person denied a building permit for the reason of the need of a barren sort of conditional use permit appeals decision of ISD to deny permit application section 8 which we typically see here as in force as interpretation hearings. It's actually more properly understood as the enforcement mechanism of the enabling act which gives anybody who's agreed by any active decision of the building commissioner the right to appeal such an active decision of building commissioner to this board within 45 days. What we have here essentially is honestly a re-discussion of a matter that was decided by this board on April 25th. If this were to be properly appealed the decision of the board would have had to have been appealed to the superior court. That's not the case. We're seeing a number of these self title citizens. Correct. We're seeing a number of these self title citizens appeals most falling outside the statutory appeal period for the decision being complained of that account of his board and they are failing to meet the requirements, the administration requirements of Article 5 Section 2 of the code which states that any appeal to this board must clearly state the section of the code which the hearing is the subject of. We have not heard anything that ISD the inspection services department in any way aired an issuing permit. This matter was brought on appeal to this board. It was heard on April 25th of 2017. The decision in the matter was entered into the emergency inspection services department on May 26th and the use of premises permit was issued on August 1st of 2017. The argument before the board essentially boils down. When would the 45 days have expired? The 45 days would have expired from the entry days of the decision of the board, the decision of the board entered on May 26th. So it would be approximately October, early October. I don't know the date. On May 26th it would have been mid July. I'm sorry, I was referring to the permit as well. What's being appealed here I think is the issuance of the permit which was August 1st. I'm sorry, I was referring to the permit. Nothing in the plans have changed. Anything that was submitted to the board has stayed the same. Everything is the same. The plan was approved by the Public Improvement Commission, the use of premises permit issued. What the argument seems to be is that the board was told the testimony on the day of the hearing that the petitioner's mother is moving in part time. I think this board does not make its decisions based on those elements. We understand clearly that our decisions are there for the long term regardless of ownership, regardless of whatever. But I just want to point out that I could almost understand the point of the hearing if it was said that it was misrepresented at a community meeting that somebody was moving in who had a disability. That wasn't in fact the case. That wasn't even mentioned at the public hearing because frankly my colleague, Attorney Mahoney, did not feel it was appropriate to reveal personal medical information about our client's mother. I've been out of it going there. I agree, I don't think the board should. I think this is the time to either reveal that personal information today. So we have information from the butter soup broth interpretation. We have information from the representative of the owner. Can I have a decision, please? Can I have a motion? Second motion. Is it a right to be to not or in the first? Sarah second. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Thank you. I think that if you have an issue with the appeal, this is upset to say, I'm sorry to say this is not the place where the appeal needs to be brought. I understand that. So if there are other matters, are the navids in the in south-boss that know they need to follow that process. This brings it back to us. It's not going to be the solution. Thank you. Madam Chair, I'm going to do the zoning advisory subcommittee meeting on October 26th, 2017. Case B O A 758 471689, Sarah Toger, was approved with BPDA, and constructed a new dormant addition, extended living space to the attic, and an existing single-family residential. Case B O A 756 5333, 10 school street, was approved with BPDA, constructed outdoor deck, and rear of the building and roof, and exterior stairs, and an existing single-family residential. Case B O A 744749, 282 to 284, Cambridge Street was approved. Change of arctubes to a juice bar, cafe, interior renovation, accommodated a new juice bar, no more than 25% of the business would be eating. Case B O A 7662, 36248 Street was postponed. Case B O A 740324, 235 to 239, Dudley Street was approved with the proviso, for take-off or for Dudley. That was the name of the shop. Case B O A 754 990 was heard today. Case B O A 736227 was deferred today. Case B O A 752 179, 23 grass mayor was approved with BPDA, constructed a second floor addition with roof deck, and an existing floor master bedroom and master bath. Case B O A 753730, 1225 to 1229, River Street was approved with BPDA, and the proviso was no more than 19 in the school. Case B O A, this was a change of actually retail, yes, or not, real estate and retail office and professional school. Case B O A 7661 289, 572, and Parkway was approved with BPDA, constructed two car garage and existing driveway. Case B O A 736446 11 Robinwood Avenue was approved with constructing new front dormer and existing single-family residential. Case B O A 756. One moment on that. There was also an approval for BPDA, but also for a Boston Transportation Park because they're batting out onto the street. I can make sure that you get the cars. Thank you, Mr. Bessani. The next case B O A 756 862 23 Burewatt was approved with BPDA, constructing new dormer, second level, and existing dwelling and expand living space on the second floor. Case B O A 763 012 40 Coinceton Road was deferred to 1219 2017 at 1130. Case B O A 73531 4 Weld Street was approved. This was to extend living space to the basement and attic space in existing single-family residential. And the last case on residential, on rediscussion was B O A 735 990 275 to 277 summit avenue. It was approved. It was to remove and replace an existing report that concludes the zoning advisory subcommittee meeting. I'm motion pleased. I'll sit in front of the recommendation. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Meeting is adjourned. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.