 you you you the city of Boston zoning board of appeal hearing for January 27, 2026 is now in session. This hearing is being conducted in accordance with the applicable provisions, the open meeting law, including the updated provisions enacted by the legislature this year. The new law allows the board to continue its practice of holding virtual hearings through June 2027. This hearing of the board is being held remotely via the Zoom webinar event platform and is also being live streamed. In order to ensure this hearing of the board is open to the public, members of the public may access this hearing through telephone and video conferencing. The information while connecting to this hearing is listed on today's hearing agenda, which is posted on the public notices page of the city's website, Boston.gov. Members of the public will enter the virtual hearing as attendees, which means you will not see yourself on the screen and you will be muted throughout unless administratively unmuted when asked to comment. Board members applicants and their attorneys or representatives will participate in the hearing as panelists and they will appear alongside the presentation materials when speaking. panelists are strongly encouraged to keep video on while presenting to the board. As with our in-person meetings, comments and support will be followed by comments and opposition. The order of comments is as follows. Elected officials, representatives of elected officials and members of the public. The chair may limit the number of people called upon to offer a comment and a time for commenting as time constraints require. For that reason, the board prefers to hear from members of the public who are most impacted by a project that is those individuals who live closest to the project. If you wish to comment on an appeal, please click the raise hand button along the bottom of your screen in the Zoom webinar platform. Click it again and your hand should go down. When the host sees your hand, you will receive a request to unmute yourself. If you are connected to the hearing by telephone, please press star 9 to raise and lower your hand. You must press star 6 to unmute yourself after you receive the request from the host. Those called upon to comment will be asked to state their name and address first and then can provide your comment. In the interest of time and to ensure that you have enough time to do so, please raise your hand as soon as Mr. Stembridge reads the address into the record. Do not raise your hand before the relevant address is called or the meeting host will not know to call on you at the appropriate time. We ask that you keep your comments brief and all public testimony will be limited to 90 seconds per speak though. Mr. Stembridge. Morning, Madam Chair. Good morning. Mr. Valencia. Good morning, Madam Chair. Good morning Miss Turner. Good morning, Madam Chair President. Good morning, Madam Chair. Good morning, Madam Chair. Good morning, Madam Chair. Good morning, Madam Chair. Good morning, Mr. Collins. Are you unmute Mr. Collins? Mr. Collins on? Paisus, do you see their columns? I don't see anything. Okay, well can someone reach out to him and in the interest of time we will start as a six member of board? So with that I'll turn it over to Mr. Sembridge. Thank you, Madam Chair. We begin today's meeting with the approval of hearing men's scheduled for 9.30 a.m. These hearing men's from January 13th of this year. I will make a motion of approval. There's second. Thank you. Mr. Sembridge. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Barraza. Yes. Mr. Parado. Yes. Chair votes yes, the motion carries. On to the extensions. Next we will want to say extension scheduled for 9.30 a.m. I'll read to all of the extensions. They are all here, reasonable. After our finish reading them, take a vote on that time. We get this case B-O-A 156216-0 with the address of 61 with Goultre. Next we have case B-O-A 127 0821 with the address of 123 Fisher Avenue. Next we have case B-O-A 1444 961 with the address of 354 East Street. Next we have case B-O-A 152 1747 with the address of 5 to 7 Brown Terrors. Next we have case B-O-A 152 1739 with the address of 751. Next we have case B-O-A 152 1753 with the address of 9 to 11 C-Ferns Avenue. Next we have case B-O-A 152 1740 with the address of 11 C-Fern Avenue. Next we have case B-O-A 119 395 with the address of 1154 to 1156 Goultre's Thrap. Next we have case B-O-A 152 1750 with the address of 1154 to 1156 Goultre's Thrap. Thank you. Any questions from the board? May I have a motion to grant the extensions as requested? Some moved. I can. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Mr. Turner? Yes. Mr. Guy Brasov? Yes. Mr. Panado? Yes. Chair votes yes. The motion carries. Next we have two board final overture cases. Skip with the 9 30 a.m. The first case B-O-A 1702915 with the address of 27 window for street. It's the after 10th with the represent of the president. Please explain the case to the board. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Good morning, Madam Chair and members of the board. This is Mike Ross. I'm here with the architect Peter Venko. This project was approved by the board on October 7th, 2025. And at the time, it was a nine unit structure with 13 parking spaces. The development team needed to modify the plans in order to make the project feasible and to get it under construction. The new plan reduces the units to six in the parking spaces to nine. If you go to the zoning chart there, Mr. Ambassador, the zoning relief for me is the same. FAR use stories high side and where your setbacks are the same. While the open space requirement is not triggered by this structure of a three out five thousand. One of the comments made by the board in October, I believe I believe by member Ben O'Barranzo related to this issue of open space due to the amount of parking coverage. And so a proviso was actually added to that decision to go focus on the four parking spaces and prioritize open space. This new project does just that. If you get to slide four, hopefully my slides are the same as your slides. You can see a comparison of the October plan with the, I think it's earlier, Mr. Ambassador should be slide four on this. Let me see. Yeah, that's one right here. Thank you. You can see a comparison from the October plan on the left with now the current proposal on the right. The current proposal on the right has the four parking spaces removed and replaced with open space. You can also see here that the massing of the building is the same in both cases. And then if you go to the slides. After this, Mr. Ambassador, they'll show the four plans and the new layouts of the six units. Previously, there were nine units that had four one beds, three two beds and two three bedrooms. It's now comprised of just one two bedroom and the remaining five units are all three bedrooms. The new units are larger than previously, obviously ranging from 1078 square feet to 1745 square feet. Slide six through 11 show the individual four plans if you want to focus on them. And then the last slide, Mr. Ambassador, just shows the elevations, which are largely the same. Just some windows have been moved to allow for the new layouts. You can go to the last slide if you want that to show the elevations. I'll pause there, Madam Chair and see if there are any questions. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? Yes, Mr. Ross, just to make sure I understand, you are not changing the footprint or the design of the building, only interior renovations, right? Correct, Mr. Roger. And if the cases are about hardship, you are reducing from nine to six units, but you are making the units bigger. So these are going to be bigger, the more expensive condos as well. Then, what you were proposing before, they will be bigger. And potentially, I guess they will be, you know, the cost of each unit will be spread into the sex versus into the nine. I can remember correctly, last time you proposed to afford all units. Is that correct? I believe so. I believe so. And what did you trade off at this moment with the new project? Well, you know, it's a good question. So initially, this proposal was 11 units. And we went before the Wendover Street Neighborhood Association, who pushed for a reduction in the number of units, because it's not 3F, 5,000. So we reduced those from 11 to 9. And we did so at request of the neighborhood. And the nine units, just the 11 units would have been feasible. The nine units just wasn't feasible to get the thing financed, including with the IDP units. So they, their decision to reduce it to six, made it feasible, but also, frankly, reached what the Wendover Street Neighborhood Association won in the first place, which was even less units, than nine to bring it closer to the 3F, 5,000 that we had in any case. Wendover supported the nine units scheme because we did reach a compromise. But when we came to get this project funded, it just wasn't possible. Thank you. I'm asking because you presented this case about three months ago. And so I'm very curious to understand why in just three months, to do this cover that your project was not feasible enough, but you are keeping the same size, same dimensions, making the units bigger and eliminating the four-level units because of the changes. So that's number of questions. I will just express my concerns. Understood. Any other questions from the board? Is there a motion? I'd like to put forward a motion of approval. Is there a second? Thank you. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Is that a brazo? Yes. Mr. Panado. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Chair votes yes. The motion carries. Thank you. Mr. Turner. Thank you. And so to confirm, we are now a seven-member board. Thank you. Next, next. Good. Next board, final, awkwardly case. It's case B-O-A-147. 6-8-7-6-D-A-JS-28-2-28-30-2-D. If the applicant can do it, they represent it. Thank you, Mr. Stembridge. Any good morning, Madam Chair. I'm Mr. Moore. Richard Lynn's the business address of 245. Summarshri D. Spa. I'm the half of the petitioner requesting that the board review this as final hour. I'm just by way of a brief background that this project was approved back in March of 2021. This was an article 80 project that allowed for the renovation or I should say redevelopment about existing garage site into 26 residential units. I believe we have four IDP units as well. This was approved prior to the amendments, Article 53, which changed pretty much all of the zoning pre-exposting. As a result, a couple of things have occurred as part of those amendments. First is that parking, the minimum parking requirements are no longer applicable to any artically project in each Boston district. That includes both small and large projects. Previously, it was just large project where the parking was set by the planning department. That now is extended to small projects as well. So by way of the first item that we're requesting is a change in the parking ratio. The orders are originally 19 spaces approved. We are proposing a total of 14 and that is largely in parts of elimination of the stacker system that was being proposed originally in this project was approved. This site is located within close proximity to two color transit stations, both the airport station and matter T station. We did review this with the planning department and they agreed that that is an appropriate reduction in parking, especially since it eliminates the stacker requirement. The second item that we can jump to slide seven if the board just wants to see what the new parking layout looks like with the total of 14 parking spaces at ground level. Nothing else with respect to that ground level changes other than the elimination of the puzzle stacker system. We want to jump to slide 11 in addition the amendments to Article 53 also allow by right the addition of roof decks that are accessed by headhouse. This being an EBR for district we are within the height limit still by adding the roof decks that means again provided they meet all of the requirements of Section 5325 or setback are permitted. Again we reviewed this with the planning department who approved this change as well as this was an article 80 project. Both of these changes have also been vetted by ISD no additional violations under Article 53 are cited and therefore we believe it is appropriate as board final hour of the board review and hopefully approve these changes to the project. Last point I'll make is this project is under construction currently so we are eager to move forward with these amendments as soon as possible. I have any answer any questions or report. Thank you. Are there any questions from the board? I do have a question and it's more to the Boston Planning Department wherever is on call whether it's Hampton or I see Patrick on as well. Is there a project manager for this project or someone that can speak on the project from the BPD? Okay, Hampton excellent great. So this better be a reason before you go any further we don't get noticed the board final arbiters they just appear on the agenda so whomever Mr. Linz had been talking to at the planning department I was never notified about it so I can't really comment on this. So it's maybe Mr. Linz can speak on this was there ever a notice of project change since this was originally approved under Article 80? Not that I'm aware of I was not original counsel on this when it was approved we did review this in the ordinary cars as we do with planning when we're making changes and inquire as to whether an NPC is necessary. The scope of the change according to planning is this does not warrant an NPC and therefore it was reviewed internally by design staff specifically Alexa and I have reviewed this and confirm that these changes were approved. Okay, and so Alexa Pinar didn't feel that this needed to go under and NPC. That's my understanding is that there was no way. I mean the only because I think the you know the removal of the stack and and the reduction of parking it does lay on the BPD's kind of design review. I think the thing that is new to me is programmatically the addition of the roof deck even though you are conforming with the height I find that to be a programmatic change. And so typically that goes through a notice a project change to just kind of kind of get a sense of what the community impact might be on that change. So this is why I just wanted to understand from the BPD. You know why they felt that there was not necessarily needed to have community feedback on just the addition that's a new program of roof decks. That's that's my only comment and and that's why I would have liked for or we have BPD representation here if they just feel that additions of roof deck is not considered a change of program for a project that needs to go in front of the community. I don't have any further questions but BPDs can provide some context. I'll be super helpful for for me. Thank you. If I may not in chair just briefly I agree with this better raza that there are instances in which we do take that back up to the community. When the addition of roof decks with trigger conditionally used for example or rooftop restrictions then certainly that would be appropriate to the back up to the community. This changes as a right this is permitted under the code under the amended code I should say I know in certain neighborhoods it's it's certainly a conditional use permit for the changes to article 53 do allow this change by right so that I think that probably waited to whether or not it seems appropriate. Thank you for that. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? I have a motion. Motion to improve. Now the second. Back in. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Turner. Yes. Ms. Berberazer. Yes. Ms. Bonato. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Your votes. Yes. The motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. You can. Next we move to the recommendations from the South Carolina. Thank you. Two words. We begin with. Those measures are. So. Just do this. We begin with. Two case B.O.A. 179. 8986. With the address of two. This was. What will prove. The. The. The. The. The. The. The. The. The. The. The. The. The. The. Colonel Bank Avenue, which was up here. Finally, we have case deal with. Sorry to interrupt, I believe the last two were reading in separately. Is that Park Carlin? Yes, to the museum? Yes, so we're gonna be reading two Woodrow Street and 16 to 18 Brad Hill Street separately. Great, so can we have a motion on what has been read into the record? Are there any questions? If not, may I have a motion? Motion to approve all the recommendations from the Supreme Committee. Thank you, is that okay? Mr. Stambridge. Yeah. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Ms. Turner? Yes. Ms. Berrazo? Yes. Ms. Panato? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Chair votes, yes, the motion carries. There are two that will be separately now. First, it's case beaway, 179, 8986 with the address of two Woodrow Street. I believe someone needed to re-choose themselves for this one. Mr. Collins, are you reusing yourself? You're on mute. Sorry, Madam Chair, yes, I need to refuse. Thank you, so we are six member board. Any questions from the board? You're in none, may I have a motion? Motion to approve. Madam Secretary? Mr. Stambridge? Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Ms. Turner? Yes. Ms. Berrazo? Yes. Ms. Panato? Yes. Chair votes, yes, the motion carries. And finally for the recommendation, we have case beaway, 178, 3344 with the address of 16 to 18 Bradfield Avenue. Madam Chair, I need to refuse myself. Thank you, we are six member board. Any questions from the board? Hearing none, may I have a motion? Motion to approve. Second, thank you, Mr. Stambridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Ms. Turner? Yes. Ms. Panato? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Chair votes, yes, the motion carries. Next, we'll go through the groundwater conservation over the list of the cases. This is going to be 9 30 a.m. We have case beaway, 18036 with 49 with the addressлет 81 combo walls Avenue, if the applicants in or they represent a proposed, which includes the ones before. Anyone's, 제재스, are you on? I am. Okay. Is this person Mary Bonds? Mary Bonds? I think this is no Mary Bonds for the next case for 29 row. Okay. So do we have someone who's speaking for 181 come out? No. Can't see anyone. Okay. So let's move on for now then. We'll get we'll go to the hearings of hearings scheduled for 9.30 a.m. To begin with, we'll ask if there are any more questions or withdrawals from the 9.30 a.m. bureau. Yes, Mr. Stembridge, 198 Mary in Street. That would be case, be it away, 178, 703, the address of 198 Mary in Street. Go ahead. Plan 20, Jacob. Thank you. Ms. Secretary, thank you, Madam Chair. Remember the board attorney Jeff Trega would drag on to Skana with the business address of 11 B.C. Street. Here on behalf of the applicant of 198 Mary in Street and Ward 1 East Boston, seeking a deferral. It came to our attention that the plans that were submitted need the elevation needs to be shown accurately on the plan. It is not depicted and this isn't a seafroud district. So we would ask for deferral to make that adjustment to the plans. Okay, how much time do you need? It probably about four to five weeks or a march date if possible. March 10th or March 24th? I think the 10th would work to find a cow line if that works for you. Thank you. May I have a motion? Motion should defer to March 10th. May I have a second? I can't. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Bethe-Barranza. Yes. Mr. Prado. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. The motion carries. Thank you very much. Any further requests or calls or deferrals from the 930 here? Mr. Stembridge. I have two of them. 18 to 22 green street is the first one. We'll begin with case B.O.A. 178. 8402. The address of 18 to 22 green street. You go ahead. Thank you for the record of Richard Lins. Business address of 245 Summars. Mr. D. Spost. We have a petitioner. Requesting a deferral. We've seen a lot of communication on this matter from the district counselor planning and the fur from the mayor's office on this as well. We'd like to go back and take a look at the project to see if there's any changes we could do to address some of the concerns. So we're requesting a deferral. March date would be appropriate. It's March 10th or March 24th. Let's do the 24th please. Would that may have a motion? I think I'm listening to the pair that's on March 24th. 30 second. Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Betabrazo. Yes. Mr. Pantato. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. The motion carries. See you then. Thank you. The other one is a 128 penny to the street. Mr. Stembridge. And that is a for for a new notice. So a relatively quicker date if possible. Whatever the board needs to be noticed the matter. So this would be 4k's BOA 178 7097 with the address of 128 bank. And the earliest would be March 10th. Okay. Yeah. So for the record, Richard Lin's 245. Summer Street East Boston. We have the petitioner. We see the notice as cited the reaigard setback. I believe that because this is a tear down of the existing building, the side year and setback, I should also be cited. I believe we've already indicated that too. Inspecial services to go ahead and update the refusal. And then we're hoping for him to know this in advance of March 10th. Assuming that's enough time. Okay. Would that be a motion? Motion to defer this case until March 10th. Now the second. I take it. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Bettebrazo. Yes. Yes. Mr. Bonado. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. The motion carries. Thank you. Mr. Stembridge. 49 to 51 calendar street. Please. So this would be for case B-O-A, 176, 6723 with the address of 49 to 51 calendar street. Go ahead, Attorney. Thank you. Mr. Stembridge. Madam Chair, members of the Board of Attorney Ryan Spitz. With that, I'm some emergency business address of 168 H. Street. First floor. This proposal will need to be re-advertised as there was a system application that was inadvertently left off at 53 calendar street. So again, this will need to be re-advertised. Okay. So, I really speak to you as March 10th. That will work. Thank you. Okay. With that motion. Motion to defer this case until March 10th. There's second. Okay. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Bettebrazo. Yes. Mr. Bonado. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. The motion carries. Thank you. There are no more requests for the draws and the troubles from the 930A. Inherit. We will begin with case B-O-A, 1803497 with the address of 29 low street. The applicant and the other representative of present. Madam Chair, I need to reduce. Okay. So this is a, we are a six member board. Thank you. Mr. Stembridge and again, good morning. Madam Chair, members of board. Richard Lines, 245 Somers Street. These spots on behalf of the petitioner. Mr. Ambassador, if you can jump down the slide four just to give us all of the context. I'll explain the proposal to the board. This is an existing approximately 4,100 square foot separately assessed vacant parcel of land and brothel mail. Our proposal would be to construct the two-year residential structure with parking at grade. Two years of curvaugh are allowed in the sub district. This is a two out 5,000 district. And although the walk is similar in size and shape, as many of it's adjoining locks in the neighborhood, a dimension or leak is required for this proposal based upon what the current dimensional regulations are for this particular two-year 5,000 district. I think you can get on a slide. Maybe slides six. It's about five or six. Yeah. That's good. A place to stop. So with respect to the relief that will be necessary to a number of items that have been cited, and I'd just like to walk through those. We probably can go to the architectural site, plan it slide ten. I'm not probably the best place to stop. So we can explain the dimension or leak that will require. So in this particular neighborhood, the minimum lot area for single dwelling in this 5,000 square feet, this lot would not even be sufficient for that. So we'll leave for the necessary recall regardless of what is being proposed. In addition, the minimum lot with is 50 feet, we're at 42 and a half feet. But once again, I would point out that the rot itself is typical for this area, and the proposed use is consistent with the surrounding context in the immediate vicinity. With respect to the setbacks, we see here that the rear setback is approximately 38 and a half feet to the building from a rear property line. We'll see in a moment that this site is pretty significantly slowed from the back to the front. So we are proposing some retaining walls towards the rear, but I would point out that the setback requirement of 40 feet is crack that we met based upon where we're at from the building to the rear property line. As a result of the community process, this setback originally was closer to the rear law line. We have proposed to move the building forward based upon comments that we heard from rear butters that has resulted in the reduction of our front yard setback down to about nine feet total. I know the planning department's comments concerning front yard parking were raised. I think by moving the building forward, we're only proposing to have the single parking space per unit in the garage, and we'll see those in the automation at a moment. For side yard setbacks, we're able to meet the setback on the left side. We do have a 10 foot minimum. We are proposing a three foot on the right side, but I will point out that the owner of the property also owns the adjoining lot to the right, so the impact should be minimal on the existing structure that's there. With respect to the foot air ratio, the maximum is 0.5. We are proposing 0.9, so we do require early from that as well. While this building is designed to be 2.5 stories of habitable space, so there's a main level for unit one, and unit two is by level, but the half story at the top. We are cited for height and stories as well, and again, when we see the elevations, you will see the dramatic change in slope from the rear of the property to the front. With respect to usual open space, the sub-district requires about 40, a little between 40 and 45 percent total open space. We are proposing a total of 52 percent usual open space, but because the lot size is deficient, we would not be the physical requirement of open space, which is about 30, or really about 3100 square feet to a level of 2200 square feet, 4 new open space as we propose. Then we are proposing two parking spaces. The code does require two per unit in the sub-district, and therefore we require a reach for the additional space that would not be provided. If we can jot down to, I think, the elevations at slide 14, that will illustrate certainly how the lane is building up. As you can see in the upper left corner, that is the front elevation, and we do again have a significant slope back to the front. That garage level is sub-terranean for most of the site, with the 2.5 stories being built above the grey line, as you can see in the side elevation on the right. When looking at it from the rear, the only exposed portion would be the 2.5 stories of how the little space, again, leave garage level would be completely below grade, if looking at the top view from the rear. One of the things I will point out is that during the community process, we did hear from directive butters to the rear. We agreed to work with them not only with slope stabilization, ensuring that retaining walls will not cause any impact on the properties, but we agreed to incorporate a significant amount of landscaping to the rear to create privacy, as well as incorporate a fence of their choice along the rear property line to replace any fencing that presently exists. I will pause there. I know the planning department has recommended a crew role with a number of items that they've raised as concern. We can work through most of those items that have been raised. So I'll pause there and answer any questions in the board. Thank you. Questions from the board? Yeah, can you just clarify that the property right now, there's nothing on the property correct? I'm just looking at Google existing conditions. Is there just big three trees correct? It's a vague, yeah, vague and a lot of no structures existing. I do have an existing condition site plan at slide nine if the vassarals were back to that but yeah, the no structures. You're proposing a new curb cut that's 14 feet? That is correct, yes. Okay, all right. So what I find interesting is you're right that the BPD did recommend no fine parking, but I think what's working through you is that there's a property to the left where it has very similar condition. Their garage is not being used, but I can see that is not like if we were to pass this is not that this is setting precedent. There's already a condition next to you. The only concern would be that if you have two wide curb cuts next to each other, you're really not making it very pedestrian friendly. You know, so that I would imagine that would have been more of the concern, but I don't have any questions. Thank you. Through the chair, I can I think we can agree that the curb showing in 14 could be reduced. I think there's there's especially as we pull the building a little bit closer to the front. I think 12 feet could work, but certainly it will work through that as the board is inclined to approve it with design. Yeah, and I'm just going to ask if someone can clear the screen with the red marks. It's a little hard to see some time, some details. Thank you. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Yes, I'm just to confirm this side plan that we are looking at at this moment already reflects building shift from the back to the front. I already know what they comment from the above. I said you offered to move there. We didn't think ten feet to the front. Is this they revised? That is correct, Mr. Lawrence. The original setback of the building was at approximately 28 feet. We're now at 38, no over 38 feet. So it's about a 10 foot shift the building forward and that was in direct response to the butters to the rear. Do you have to remove all the trees that are existing at the club party at this moment? I believe there's some trees that will be removed or additional trees to be removed. I know some have already been removed and the trees to the rear, there's some additional trees to the rear. But we are replacing a number of trees on site as well. Okay, just to help my colleague, John, they're like unique trucks. I'm sure those three trees are going to be removed. There's no way to saving them. Yeah, I'm asking because I still don't think one of the comments from the others. Yeah, and I think we committed in the community process, Mr. Lawrence, and Ms. Paraza is that we are committed to planting a number of trees on site. We think it'll help certainly with slope stabilization to the rear, but that would be a cooperative as part of Lensfield. Thank you. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Hearing none, may I have public testimony? Madam Chair and members of the board for the record, my name is Jeremy Bembery. I'm the Rosland Dale Community Engagement Specialist for the Office of the Nickwood Services. The applicant has completed the community process, which consisted of an about as meeting facilitating on September 16th, where what is voiced a few concerns? A concern for the impact on an adjacent property due to the adjusting of the grade and retaining wall from the rear, immediate abut to property, a concern for the rear setback, which are what's the rear of the property, and suggest that the proponent move the proposed building closer to the street by about 10 feet to provide more rear space for children to play. A concern for the height of the proposal and blocking sunlight was mentioned and a request for a structural management plan that all the voters can review, again referring to the digging and change of grade. Neighbors' voice concerns for trees on the property requesting that many almost remain. A butters' voice concerns for stone water runoff, and if a stone water management plan has been created, as the neighbor pointed out that the patios are handscaped and will increase water runoff. Next, of course, was presented to Prospect Hill neighborhood association, who had no opposition to completed the community process. To date, our office does not receive any further community feedback. Though it does seem that Mr. Lins and their team has reached out to the community, I have continued that community engagement, and there has been some changes made. Thank you for your time, and I am here as Officer Nippert Services, we would like to refer to the board for the judgment. Thank you. Next, we have a Susan Schufler. Hi. Can everyone hear me? Yeah? Okay. So my name is Susan Schuffler. I live at 127 Brown, which is the rear of Butter to 29 row. I also submitted written comments, and I have a question that does be part of the record as well. So I want to start by saying that I do not oppose development of 29 row. Also, the trees are gone. I'm looking at the lot right now, and the trees left in April. So there's no trees left. Just to answer board members' question on that. So first, I don't oppose development of this site, but that said this is a very challenging site. It's on a steeple site. It's very close to existing homes, and it really needs stable, long-lasting retaining walls, and other core safety features. Because of the conditions of the site, details like building placement, height, safety, measures, and landscaping are not minor issues. They are essential to whether this project could be completed safely and responsibly. During our November meeting with Mr. Lens, he agreed to incorporate concerns into updated plans. These included moving the building forward to increase the rear setback, which has been done, limiting the total height of the building so that it does not exceed the height of 27 row. It's neighbor, and installing safety and privacy fencing at dangerous elevation points, particularly along the rear property line. We also discussed the need for a landscaping plan to address tree loss, erosion, and slope stability, as well as clear construction mitigation measures to protect neighboring properties during what's going to be a quite lengthy and disruptive excavation and construction process. At this time, the rear setback is addressed, but the total height, safety fencing, slope stabilization, and landscaping have not been addressed in these plans. We've received big assurances. These will be handled a little later date, but that is not sufficient. So I respectfully request the Board of Proof-O-B condition on the submission, the Board Acceptance overvised plans that clearly document the total building height, no higher than 27 row, and the required safety fencing at all high risk elevation points, including along the rear property line. I appreciate the Board's time and careful consideration and look forward to seeing this project move forward in a way that balances the need for housing, the safety, environmental responsibility, and respect for the surrounding neighbors. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks. And I think next week of another person, she's a message, Mary. I'm Mary Bonne. Yes, I'm here. Thank you. I support what Susan just said, which is our community came together. The initial meeting was with the Prospector Negard Association. As an organization, we choose not to take positions on development projects, but to allow the butters to refacilitate their comments. So supporting what Susan said, I want to bring two things to light. One is that two of the trees on the property were large old-growth trees. These were taken down by the owner last year before any proposal was ever presented to anybody. I'm also curious of the three-foot setback side on the side of the property. It's a comment to the ZBA. So if the person next door, the owns this property leaves, then the new owner is confronted with House next to them. It's only three feet away. I find it curious that that's acceptable. My main comment is what part of what Susan said. Richard Lins has been very cooperative with us and we appreciate that. But we still don't know who the developer is. We don't really know the owner. What is the recourse if the promises that Richard has made, the attorneys made to us, are not being met if a developer wrote me with us. If we see something that's not what was agreed upon here. One big issue was about construction management plans. There's only parking on one side of the street here and it's usually full. There are going to be trucks. There are going to be employees with their cars. So we're mostly concerned with what's the process if this doesn't go the way we've been promised. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, I'm happy to address that. I expressed in the public process for this project that we would continue to keep the civic group in a butter's prize of construction management plans as they develop. We typically don't do that until approval is complete and we know what the final plan will look like. It's difficult to tell what the extent of the construction management be until we know all of the details of the construction. I have no reason to believe that my client will not do that. I think there's ample time to get those conversations continued and we have been fully committed to working with the neighbors on addressing those concerns that we heard here from the director of butter as well. Thank you. Are there other questions from the board? I have a question regarding what one of the community members just mentioned regards to the mayor. Are you from I think you might be frozen Mr. Brasad? Can you hear me now? Yes, you might want to. I was just saying typically in regards to impact and regards to being in a new construction of neighborhood. Typically one does know whether this is going to be for sale, whether the owner tends to live here. Can you just provide some feedback in regards to what is the future use of this new construction? Yes, these are intended for home ownership. These would be individual, kind of a new units sold off as home ownership. Okay, thanks. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? May I have a motion? Ma'am, I'm making a motion of approval with the Planning Department review, especially attention to for parking configuration to ensure that there is no front yard parking. There are a second? Sir. Mr. Stembridge. Yeah. Mr. Rolensio. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Beter-Braso. Yes. Mr. Panado. Yes. Chair votes yes. The motion carries. Thank you very much. Next we have case B-O-A 178 9141 with the address of 27 million street. It's the applicant and will the representative or president? Will they please run the case before? Thank you, Mr. Stembridge. And I apologize my camera is not working today. Attorney Jeff Trego with Trego and Tuscany, with the business address of 11 Beacon Street. Here on behalf of the employer developers of 27 Millet Street. So they don't give you everything we've asked for. Mr. Turner, you guys are. Yeah, thank you. Caleb and Yasmine Hassan were also on the cause well and context design is the architect and what you're looking at in this rendering is a rendering of the proposed condo for you and at condominium building that now is comprised of an empty parcel that you could go to the next slide, please. And just again the proposal itself is to erect a new three-story residential building that would house four residential condominium units on site and with two exterior parking spaces accessed through a 10-foot curb cut on the right side of the property and then to erect an exclusive use roof deck to the top floor exclusive to the fourth floor unit. This particular and you can see the site overview, I'm sort of in this area. We've designed the building to match the style of many of the buildings around us. There's an existing three family to the left and multi-family residential, mostly three and two within that immediate area. But particularly a log area, you can go to the next slide, please. This is 3580 square feet. As I had mentioned you can see here sort of what the lot is comprised. There's actually two lots where one in from the corner and there's been a lot of other developments proposed in this particular area to create new housing. The lot is 3580 square feet. This particular sub district is the three F6000. If we go to the next slide, please. If we go to the next slide, Mr. Ambassador, thank you. One back, please. Thank you. So you can see the parcel had some overgrown brush of a few smaller dead trees that's been cleaned up. You can see it's been an open parcel for years. This was actually part of the Yard Sale program with the city. I helped by the mayor's office of housing and as part of our proposal with the mayor's office of housing, we agreed to an affordable unit on site. I'll go over that once we get into the plans. Next slide, please. Next slide, please, Mr. Ambassador, thank you. You can just see either side of the development as it stands now. As we worked with the community, with our direct neighbors and the west of Washington Civic Association, we actually made a number of changes to the project and also kept our affordable unit. One was to reduce the number of stories from four stories down to three. We reduced the building height from 43 feet to 34 feet six inches. We shifted the driveway and parking spaces away from our neighbor and we moved the decks from the side of the building to the front of the building, which many of the properties, if you look down the street, you'll see that they have front decks and these were all recommendations made by neighbors and the wild group west of Washington. Next slide, please. We'd be starting to get into this as the site plan. You can just see the the curb cut proposed two spaces in the rear of the property. There would be rear decks, front decks and then obviously the roof deck that I had mentioned. We also have an area I've dealt for green space in the back of the property. These would be condo units, so home ownership units. Just to get into the plans, if you could go to the next slide by way of unit breakdown, unit one is a 1200 square foot three bedroom unit. Unit two is a one bedroom unit, 690 square feet and unit three is a 620 square foot one bedroom unit. Both of those have decks and then unit four is the largest unit that's 1370 square foot three bedroom unit with a deck and a roof deck as well. So front deck and then roof deck on the property as well. Just to point out the affordable unit that I had mentioned would be one of the one bedroom units in the back. So the second floor and we agreed to an 80% AMI and that would be a 30-year restriction in that I believe the board should have a letter from MOH supporting this proposal. We also had a letter sent from the west of Washington Association in support and we as I had mentioned we worked with all of our neighbors on this project as we went forward. With that I can pause and answer any questions that the board may have. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? Hearing none may I have public testimony. Madam Chair and members of the board for the record. My name is Jarrui Bembery. I'm the dojo staff community to take engage in specialists for the office of neighborhood services. The applicant has completed the committee process which consisted of two of others' meetings facilitated on April 22nd and November 13th of 2025. During the first of others' meeting about his voice concerns for the height of the proposal roof decks parking and the number of units filling forwards excessive and through be more acceptable. The proponent may change us to the proposal to address some of those concerns. The second meeting facilitates on November 13th less attended than the first and a part of voice their appreciation for the changes in the inquired of the Congress where rentals offer sale preferable and shipped over rentals. Next the proposal is presented to show up twice to west of Washington neighborhood association which completed the community process. To date our office has received one letter from support from west of Washington neighborhood association very excited to support the development. Thank you for your time and the mayor's office and neighborhood services would like to defer to the board for the judgment. Thank you. Thanks. We hope Brian. Thank you very much Madam Chair members of the board. My name is Timothy Guymann. I'm here on behalf of City Council Brian WRL. We'd like to go on record in support of this project. We're particularly excited about the home ownership opportunity in the neighborhood and appreciate the applicant and their team on the robust civic process. With that we'd love to support the project. Thank you very much. Chair there are additional comments. Okay was that may I have a motion? I put forward a motion to approve. There a second. Sir. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Betapraza. Yes. Mr. Panado. Mr. Mado. Yes. Sorry I didn't hear you. Sorry. Okay. Mr. Collins. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. The motion carries. Thank you very much. Next we have case B.O.A. 176. 7611. With the address of 11 in Wood Street. Is the applicant's and or their representative present? Would that please explain the case to the board? Yes. Good morning. I'm a rancher. Members of the board. My name is Abraham Algorith. I am in our license contract for 11 in Wood Street. I am in behalf of the owner of the property owner. This property has been approved and active building. We have an active building permit for our three family residential buildings. This site is in construction site and wood is already on the way. Today's request is not a new project. The owner requested an amendment for an existing approval permit. The amendment will change the project from a three family to a four residential building. The amendment includes a regional apartment extending the first floor unit into a basement. Interior layout is there. The configuration. Change the roof from a flat roof to a table roof with a dome. The fire sprinkler is already part of the approval of our project. If the amendment is approved, the 13 hour sprinkler system will be adjusted to serve the amended floor for family layout. There is no reduction in life-sale safety protection. The property provides three of three parking spaces. The sun is requesting the sun is a little wetty because the amendment does not comply with the sun in population related to use to the floor dwelling. No size and not wet floor area racial building. The use of the open space from site and rear is set up. The sun in condition already existing and no have been created by the owner of contract or the contract. This amendment imprude the property by creating one additional layer of housing unit. Maintaining the adjusting approval life safety system keeping the same building full-prim. Remaining residential use. The machine being a character there by home. There is no expansion of the building full-prim. And any high changes is a minimum and a constant consistent with the new building. Without sun in release, the reasonable amendment can no more forward. We respectfully request the board grant the request sun in release. Approved this amendment for a three family, what two are for you. Thank you for your time and the consideration. Thank you. Are there any questions from the board? Hearing none, ma'am, public testimony? Madam Chair and members of the board for the record, my name is Jarry B. Benbury and the Doach-Hust, a community engaged in specialists for the Office of Neighborhood Services. The applicant has completed the community process which consists of an about as we did facilitate it on my apologies. With one guest present, they immediately have but a voice support for the proposal as they may change us to the roof or their feedback. Next, the representative to the greater board and Geneva neighborhood association where they voted in support of the proposal. The date our office has not received any further community feedback at this time. Thank you for your time and the most office neighbor's services were elected to the board for their judgment. Thank you. Next, we have ACC on through over here. Thank you very much, Madam Chair, members of the board, Timothy from Council Brian Whirls Office. We'd like to go on record and support this project and want to confirm all the civic engagement that was completed up to this point. So with that, we'd like to go and support. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Chair, there are no additional comments. Would that may I have a motion? Nobody can move. I'm approval. Second. Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Balencia. Yes. Ms. Turner. Yes. Ms. Bethe-Barranza. Yes. Ms. Panato. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Boaks, yes. The motion carries. Good morning. Thank you very much. Madam Chair. The next case, we've been assured, so that takes us to case B-O-A 1802569 with the address 9 Hamlet Street. If the applicant enter with their representative or parent, will they please respond to the board? Yes, Mr. Stembridge. Good morning, Madam Chair. I'm Mr. Boor, Attorney Derek Small, of a business address of 51 Dops and Road. Here representing the owner of the property, Mr. Lucendo Galveston-Galveston-Galveston. We're here today, Madam Chair, seeking relief to change the legal occupancy of the building from a three-family dwelling to a four-family dwelling, legalizing the existing basement unit. The basement unit has been there for 20, 25 years. It's been there for a very long time, so we're here seeking to correct the violation at ISD as such. The violations with regard to this are the FAR. The FAR requirement is 0.5. We are seeking one Austrian parking. We would need to add an additional parking space, but there is no room on the site. The site is a triple-decker. In and amongst other triple-deckers, so many of which are three and four-family dwellings. So this is not out of the character of what is existing already in the neighborhood. That basement unit is approximately 1,000 square feet and can suspect two beds and one bath. I can start the Madam Chair, any questions that the board members may have? No, I speak to you. Any questions from the board? During Madam Mayor of Public testimony. Madam Chair and members of the board for the record, my name is Jerry V. Vembrary. I'm the dojo-storke community engaged and specialist for the office of neighborhood services. The applicant has completed the community process, which consists of an above-us reading held on November 13th with the one against an attendant who saw no issue with the proposal standing. It is pretty straightforward. Following the above-us reading, no further community process is required and to date our office is not received any further community feedback. Thank you for your time and the mayor's office of neighborhood services. We like to defer to the board for their judgment. Madam Chair, there should be some letters from members in support of the application. And I also know that the BPD's recommendation was for approval as well. Thank you. Any other raised hands? No, we don't have additional hands raised at the moment. Okay, will that may have motion? Madam Chair, I'll go ahead. You go ahead. I was going to make a motion of approval with no building code relief because it seems some questions around ceiling heights and such. Yeah, I think it's more the bedroom doesn't have access to lay in air, but thanks. I would have done the same thing. Jean, is there a second? There's a second. Thank you. Mr. Stambridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Beter-Razel. Yes. Mr. Pannauto. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Chair votes yes. The motion carries. Thank you, Madam Chair. Members, the board have a good day. Thank you. That the next three cases have been deferred, which takes us to the 11th of the clock out. So we'll take a break and come back at 11. Okay. See you guys then. Mr. Valencia. Mr. Turner. Question. Mr. Beter-Razel. Mr. Pannauto. Present. Mr. Collins. Present. Roger. Mr. Stambridge. Thank you. Mr. Valencia. Present. Mr. Turner. Present. Mr. Collins. Present. Roger. Mr. Stambridge. Thank you. Roger. Mr. Stambridge. Thank you, Madam Chair. We begin by returning to the Brown Motor Conservation Overland District case schedule for 9.30 AM. This is case B-O-A 180364-9. With the address of 181 Commonwealth Avenue. The applicant's head will be represented as our president. Please, please, indicate to the board. Good morning, members of the board. My name is Matthew Marshall. I'm the owner of 181 Commonwealth Avenue. And we are before you today's seek your relief to receive a conditional use permit under the groundwater conservation overlay district. All required prerequisites for this permit have been completed. The project is received approval from the Boston Water and Seward Commission. Further proposed groundwater recharges system. And we have submitted a certification at Nohara prepared by our engineer. And with those requirements satisfied, we are requesting the boards approval of the conditional use permit. Thank you. Okay. Is Mr. Somanali on our chance? Yes, Madam Chair. Good morning. Christian Somanali. Executive Director of the Boston Grower Trust. Both G. Codlars from the Ethnicate. We have questions from the board. Hearing none is their motion? Motion to approve. Arasas back in. Mr. Stembridge. Yeah. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Turner. Gash. Ms. Barraza. Yes. Ms. Benado. Good guess. Mr. Collins. Yes. Chair votes yes. The motion carries. So was that done? Was that will go through the hearing schedule for 11 a.m. To begin with, we'll ask if there are any requests for withdrawals or deferrals from the 11 a.m. time frame. Hearing none. We'll go to the first case, which is case B.O.A. 178. 999. 6.9. With the address of 7 Browning at. If the applicant's an authority representative of president, will they please explain to the board? Good morning. Good morning, I'm member of the board. Is my name shy, though? I live in 1065 Washington Street and do a jitter. I'm the owner in 7 Browning at. I'm also an accountant or two. I gotta build that house. So we will both or three family have one and half bathroom with three bedroom for each floor and three spay pocket in the back. And I get the right way on the right side on the left side. I keep like four feet. So this is just normal three family have for the tenant and I get to build the house and bring it out for the tenant. Do you want to walk us through any of these plans or the questions from the board? Yeah. All the board, all the member of the board, they have little plan, right? Yeah. Yeah. One and half bathroom at the kitchen, living room and three bedroom on one side. And also I own the house, number 11 Browning at. So this is number 7. So side by side for more houses. You have to have a highway. This one has a highway too. So my neighbor over there, they love what I do. So they support me to put a three family one there. Thank you. Questions from the board? May I have public testimony? I'm not sure if someone for no in that. See, it's just begin. I do apologize. Madam Chair and members of the board for the record. My name is Jeremy Embry. I'm the judge of the community engagement specialist for the office of neighborhood services. The applicant has completed the community process, which consists of an abutus we need facilitated on November 20th with no guests and attendants, which completed the community process. To date, our office has received one letter in support of the proposal. Thank you for your time in the mayor's office of neighborhood services. We'd like to defer to the board for the judgment. Thank you. Next we have a city council librarian. Thank you. Thank you again, Madam Chair and members of the board. Timothy from Councillor Brian. We're out of office. We'd like to go on record in support of this project. Thank you very much. Thank you. Madam Chair, they have no additional comments. That may have a motion. Madam Chair, I'd like to put forward a motion of approval. Very second. Second. It's just average. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Berrassa. Yes. Mr. Panaro. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Chair votes. Yes, the motion carries. Good luck, sir. I'd give very much remember on the board. Next, we have case B-O-A 180-3623 with the address of 181 West 1st Street. This is a horrible 80 case. It's the applicant and their representative, the person who they please find the case in court. Good morning, Madam Chair. This is Attorney Nixzzula, my current quality and better in handling. Attorney Hamley, supposed to be handling this case, he just let me know that he was having subcactical physicalities. I don't know if we could possibly ask for just the deferral to the end of the 11 o'clock. If there's, it looks like there's only one more matter on. Exactly. Would it be possible to go after that one? I don't see him jumping back on yet. I'm fine with that. If we can do that and then sort back in. Yeah, fair available. If not, we can proceed. I'm sorry Madam Chair. Then with that, we'll go to the next scheduled case for 11 o'clock. A.M., which is case B.O.A. 1 7 7 5 7 9 1 with the address of 748 to 750 East Broadway. If the applicant can't deliver the representative, will they please explain to the board? Yes, thank you, Mr. Stembridge. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is George Moranse. I'm an attorney with the business address of 350 West Broadway in South Boston, representing Joe Arcari, the owner of the property. As much as I wish I could help Nixzzula out by prolonging this hearing until he's ready, this is a fairly simple matter. The building in question is a four-story building containing nine dwelling units. It was a ground floor and basement commercial space. It was approved by this board in 2023. Construction of the building is now essentially complete when it was originally approved. No tenants, commercial tenants had been identified for the commercial space on the ground floor and basement. My client has since identified a gym fitness studio. I believe a Palotti studio would like to go into the basement portion. And he would also like to change the occupancy of the allowed occupancy of the first floor to a bank. The zoning district here is MFRLS, multi-family local service, all the family residential local service under Article 68. Article 68 in South Boston is I think unique in the city in that it does not contain any neighborhood business zoning sub districts. It is MFR, MFRLS, and local industrial. Hence almost any commercial use along East Broadway or West Broadway requires zoning relief. The bank here is a conditional use, even though East and West Broadway are populated by many banks. And the Palotti studio or fitness studio is a forbidden use. There may be some testimony on this matter. Folks in the community would have liked to have seen more active use on the first floor than a bank. My client has been trying to find some sort of local retail use, preferably one that serves food, quick to go items. He's kind of continued to do that. He does not have a bank client identified, but there have been some inquiries and would like to have it essentially bank ready. But he is going to continue to work with the community to find a use that is something that people in the neighborhood would like to see there more than a bank. But for today's purpose, we are seeking the variance for the fitness center gym, Palotti studio, and the base proportion of the building, and conditional use permit for our first floor bank. I did read the planning recommendation of the planning department, and the only thing I would note with respect to that is there was a proviso here for design review. But all exterior construction on this building is complete. Any signage would have to abide by the sign code to be approved by the planning department anyway. So I'm not sure that that is actually a necessary or desirable proposal. Proviso should the board elect to grant the requested relief. With that, I'll pause and take any questions that members may have. Thank you. Questions from the board? Hearing none, may I have public testimony? You see John's about the office of neighborhood services. This applicant completed the community process. Our office posted on a butters meeting on October 23rd where community members were not very receptive to the idea of a bank. They expressed interest in having any, basically anything other than a bank at this location. Gate of Heaven and neighborhood association is in non-opinion to the staff location. That background our office differs from the board. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks. Next week, actually from Councillor Flemme? Hi, my name is Ashley from Councillor Flemme's office. Councillor Flemme would like to go on recommended support. He would like to acknowledge that applicants continued work in good faith with neighbors and the city point and gate of heaven neighborhood associations on retail and storefront amenities for the community. Thank you. Thank you. Next, we have a Marco de Vargas. If not, we can go with minor paris. Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, Madam Chair. Members of the board, this is minor paris representing the carpenters meeting. On behalf of hundreds of getting carpenters, I want to go on recommended support with this project. Thank you. Next, we have city point negative position. Hi, can you hear me? Parfait Paros? Yes. Good morning. City Point neighborhood association will go on record and non-oposition as well. I just do want to make a correction to the record. We are not looking for anything to go in there that is alcohol related. Not only a bank, but not alcohol related. That was great too. The zoning attorney, Marancy explained, is in fact conditional. Some of it is private news, but in this particular occasion we're hoping that we can get an amenity in there, such as, you know, or put your shop, something similar to Lamberts, and that's what we're looking for. So with that, we will stand in non-oposition. Thank you. Thank you. Next, we have a Marco de Vargas. No, you can. Yes. Okay. Can you state your name and address for the record and whether you're in support or opposition of this project? No. Mr. De Vargas, are you speaking in support or opposition or 748? I'm on the panelist. I'm doing a. Are you doing a future case? Yes. Okay, so we're not absolutely done. Please be patient. Any other comments for some 4-8? Broadway? Madame Chair, I don't see any additional comments. Okay. Does the applicant wish to address any of the feedback? I don't think that's Mr. Zareem, I'm sure I don't think any contradicts any of my testimony. All right. Thank you. Madame Chair, can I just ask one question for clarification regarding to the potential lease of the commercial space? Please. Yeah. Do you, tell us a sense of how long your lease would be for the bank use? George Marancy for the owner. I don't have any knowledge of any. There is no current lease or even target bank. So again, there are a limited number of allowed uses in an MFR LS of district under Article 68. When I say limited, I mean there is local retail as a barbershop. There's not much else. So my client has the capacity to put a local retail establishment in here because it's in allowed use. He would like to add to his options a bank as an allowed use with the conditional use permit so that he at least has it ready. If a bank were to express interest, he would not want to say to the potential bank tenant. I should have the stipulative occupancy in place in nine months. That might not work. But as the Llan O'Connor from City Point of the neighborhood association pointed out, he has committed to working cooperatively with the neighborhood. Hopefully we can find a local retail tenant that is going to activate this face. So, short answer to the question, Member of the Federal Grazor, is there is no bank lease? So there is no term? No, I just would like to make a recommendation that when lease terms have pulled together, if there was to be a bank tenant that you would consider other options. And so not a very long, long term lease, but thank you so much for that clarification. With that, I would like to put a motion forward if you're ready, Madam Chair. If there are no other questions from the board, please. Madam Chair, I would like to put forward a motion of approval. If there is second. Mr. Stembridge. Yeah. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Turner. Mr. Turner on? Sorry, I just had a problem on meeting myself. Yes, please. No worries. Mr. Better-Raza. Yes. Mr. Panado. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Cheryl, it's yes. The motion carries. Thank you. Madam Chair, we'll return to an afterthought case, be away. 180, 3623, with the address of 181 West First Street, which is an article 80 case. If the applicant didn't know their representative wrote with us, they'd like to explain. Good morning, Mr. Secretary. Madam Chair, members of the board, Attorney Joe Hanley representing Triad Alpha Partners, the owner developer Peter Zagoreanakis, who is with me. Just making sure everyone can hear me, okay? Sure can. All right. So I'm going to run you through this quickly. As the secretary said, this is an article 80 large project that was approved by the BPEA for its residential use. This slide here on the site, Locus, if you can stay here for just a second, shows you the location. We were in a walk shed of the MBTA's Broadway station, also within a walk shed of four point, and the former Gillette headquarters and the convention center, and all of south Boston's amenities and the like. Our site is shown in the red hash building. Next slide, please. So just to walk you really quick around plan upper left, you will see this is the existing it's an existing outdated industrial use building's approximately 28 feet in height. And is obviously distressed and unutilized. So you'll see in this too that there is a grade that goes up towards the hill, again plan upper left, shows you that. And that is the view looking south into the neighborhood from First Street. And then looking down, looking up First Street, excuse me, towards B Street, you'll see the corner of the building. And then down First Street towards C in the lower left, and then the right is up on Second Street. And you will see the site obviously to its immediate left. Next slide, please. So what is being proposed here is the project site's little over an acre, almost 50,000 square feet. The building that is being proposed is very in height and massing has been real carefully designed. It's a little less than 150,000 square feet. It would deliver 144 new residential units with 13% of four of all, as well as activate First Street, the West First Street corridor with neighborhood serving retail. Proposed FAR is just a little under 3, 2.9. This is a full sized, these units are all a full sized family sized accommodations. And as you'll see we have 18 three bedrooms, 74 two bedrooms, and 51 one bedrooms. We also have bike parking, 170 interior spaces, 26, as well as a blue bike station and 101 total parking spaces, which is under the maximum limit of 0.7. And we think is appropriate considering the size of these units. The lock-up range, a little less than 60%, 59, in the building height varies between four to six stories at 46 and 63 feet in elevation. And that is utilizing that grade change that I showed you in the photos. The project timeline, this is a notice project change that was approved by the BPDA and our article lady. 2011, article 68, which the sub-boston zoning was adopted. This originally project was originally contemplated as an hazard right development with no affordable back in 2014. It was approved as such. It was stalled and not built and we refer, we returned the BPA for a notice project change in 2024 in September and we've spent the last year extensive outrage with the neighborhood to public review process is when it was the BCDC, which voted to support this and we were approved by the BPDA board. And here we are today. In support of the zoning, we would suggest that you'll see that certainly we have an unusual shaped lot. It also happens to be a budget on three sides by public ways. Second street, C street, and first street. And on the other side, it's a budget by what is now known as the Mahoney Park. It used to be a DPW lot. And since the approval in 2011, it was turned into a community garden and a public park. And that's a huge driver with how we shaped our massing and responsive height and the like. And then of course, the grade change between its lower elevation down on first street, up to second street, carving that building in there and responding to that as a way to mitigate any potential impacts. Next slide, please shows you how the zoning comes together. And you can see the relief that is necessary. We in MFR district, the MFR does not, I think you heard this from Councilor Rantzzi on another project. But it's not Boston. Article 68 doesn't allow retail through the BPDA process. We were asked to activate first street as part of the retail. That does need a variance under the MFR of which we're located. We also need relief for a lot area for additional dwelling units. As you'll see. And again, I spoke about the FAR-2 is allowed. We're at 2.9. And depending on the building height with its variation between four to six stories, presenting the lower height on second street as we get closer to the. Oops, I can't hear him. I know. I think we just lost you. If you go back a slide, I can go through the on the on Peter Sagorenakas on the own. Okay, sure. This is the zoning code. We use a letter from IDST which matches the zoning that Joe just described about. Next slide, please. Next slide. Next slide. This is our garage retail level. So on we're on grade. All frontage on West first street. And as you come across around C to to to second street because of the grade change, we have a different elevation on second street. So we're at grade on second street. Would be the first floor. Would be the second floor and at grade on first street. Would be the retail level on the parking garage. And we have 101 parking spaces. And of course, our bike parking here, which is direct access outside the building. Next slide, please. Next, as Joe mentioned, we tend to develop little bigger units than most people. So we don't we don't have a lot of studios in our buildings. We have a good mix of one, two, and three, with the majority of them being twos and threes. We have a nice open area here with setback, 60, actually 80 feet from first street on this side of the building with a, you know, an amenity for the for the residents of the building. And we have a courtyard in the middle of the building. Next slide, please. Again, good mix of units on the second. Next in the third, fourth, and fifth. Next slide, please. If you notice, we have lots of balconies around the building on different floors, again, giving the residents some nice outdoor space. Next slide, please. Fourth floor, the same. We have now on the fourth floor, we've actually set the fourth and fifth floor back on the building here so that we have, we've limited the community garden shadow lines from the building. So we're not encroaching the shadow lines more than we were with the original design and was approved in 2014 by setting that side of the building is setback. Next slide, please. And same thing on the fifth floor, we've eliminated most of the fifth floor on this side of the building. Next slide, please. We have a solar array on our roof and perler request of the local council people and elected. We've eliminated the roof deck. I guess some of the buildings in south Boston roof decks have caused too much noise. So we've eliminated the roof deck on the roof. Next slide, please. Here's some renderings of the building from different. This is the west second C street rendering. We've actually designed the building to fit right in with the street scapegole on second street. Next slide, please. This is the corner of C and first street, which is a little larger because you have the elevation change that goes down about eight feet from second street to first street and the retail level on the first floor. Next slide, please. This is looking the other way on first street where you have the community garden and park, not only park here. Next slide, please. This is our landscape area that's on second street. It's tying into the mohoney park. It's not part of the park, but it ties into the park and gives you a nice visual landscape effect, which is used by our residents. This is set back 80 feet from our property line. So this building is opening up the air to this building in the middle so they're completely this side of the building is completely exposed to light. Next slide, please. Thank you. I'll be happy to answer any questions that you might have. Thank you. Are there questions from the board hearing none, ma'am? Public testimony? Madam Chair, members, C. Johnson with the Office of Neighborhood Services. This applicant completed a Boston Planning Department led article 80 process, a joint impact three group public publishing list held on September 11, 2025. The written public comment period solicited to 24 written comments and all the as it means six in support. Our office has received 19 letters of support, one letter of opposition, main points of concern during the community meetings. High proponents or butters would like to see the high reduced noting that the proponent did work with the community on height setbacks, transportation impacts of greater density around this corridor, community would like a more comprehensive transportation approach given the amount of audible 80 projects coming to first street. Proponent worked with members of the IAG to mitigate any impacts, be a budding garden space and better blend landscaping between parcels. And with that back on our office, to first judgment to the board. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Next we have Andrew Guadvin. Hello, Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is Andrew Galvin. I'm representing Councillor Aaron Murphy's office. The Councillor would like to go on record and support of this project. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks. Makes me have Ashley from the Councillor. Hi, my name is Ashley from Councillor Flynn's office. Councillor Fimmilite's going record and support based on a good faith compromises in the community process. That included removing roof decks and removing the fifth floor story along my holding park. The proponent has also worked to conduct site remediation and agree to improvements for accessibility for persons with disabilities. Urban tree can't be in sidewalk and public realm improvements. Most notably, the proponent has worked with the community to maintain over 100 parking spaces and recognition of self-boss and existing parking crisis. With the reality that new residents and visitors will invariably bring cars to the site. Councillor Flynn respectfully ask that the board provide every consideration and the proponent to continue working closely with the community during the construction phase. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. The two-time-estate. Well, Madam Chair, I'm the board. My name is Stephen Harvey. I am the senior project manager who represented this project for the planning department. This project was re-preserved in April 2017 and it filed an MPC on September 19, 2024. It had two public meetings and one IHM meeting and had a substantial amount of meetings with the Boston and Civic Design Commission. The process was approved by the BGA, the planning department board on September 18, 2025 and it was an increase from the seven units to our 140-40 units and the planning department approved the project based on the Article 80-Word Tree process. Thanks. Next, we have Marco de Vagros. No, good morning. Are you here to speak on this project? You. Okay, I think he's waiting for his own project. Can you please continue? Okay, and next we have Manuel Perez. Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Madame Chair, members of the board, this is minor progress represent in the carpenter's union. On behalf of Hondras, are you doing carpenter's, are you doing work for the senior boss on what I want to go and record and support this project? Thank you. Mr. Mayor, there are no additional comments. Will that be able to have a motion? Make a motion of approval. Very second. Take that. Mr. Stonebridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Berraza. Yes. Mr. Panados. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Chair votes, yes. The motion carries. Thank you. Thank you. Good luck. With that, it was a bad chair. I'll move on to the red discussions scheduled for 11.30 a.m. First, we have case B.O.A. 177 419 with the addresses 2 to 4 Danny Group. If the applicant and nor their representative are present, will they please explain the case to the board? Yes. Mr. Secretary, I'm sorry. I just was asking, what deferrals already called for 11.30? No. Mr. Stonebridge, Mr. Stap, let's do Danny. Thank you. I just want to say sorry. Thank you. We're good. You're good. Anyone here for Danny Road? I don't see anyone. Okay, so let's keep moving forward. Mr. Stambridge, can you ask about deferrals? What should we roll? What should we go through? So at this point, are there any requests for which are all for deferrals? From the 11.30 a.m. Firepoint? Yes, 1110.10. So that would be 4 case B.O.A. Why? So that would be 4 case B.O.A. 170-3445. With the address of 1110.10.10. You go ahead, turn it. Dr. Thank you, Mr. Stambridge. Thank you, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Attorney Jeff Drego with the Business Adress of 11 Beacon Street. Here on behalf of the applicant, and working with the Back Bay Business Association, we are seeking one additional deferral. We've been working with them on some changes, mitigation for the advertisement, and we should have this all complete within the time period if we can get one more deferral. Okay, what are we looking at, Caroline? How we could do March 24th or April 7th? April 7th would be great, Caroline. That may not be possible. Mr. Monshot, how many different have you requested so far? Mr. Fayer, I believe there were three. One was because of a board. The board, what the composition was understood, it wasn't a full board, and then two to continue working with a different association in the city council, or it asked us to defer ones to meet with him. But this is our final. I will have everything wrapped up if granted. Okay, so today is number four. It's number six. Well, you said one was an administrative deferral. Correct, yes. Okay, so today is the third. Okay, so is there a motion? Make a motion to defer, sorry, what was the date again? March 24th. April 7th. April 7th. Okay, is there a second? No, seven. Say it. Second. Okay, Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Berrazo. Yes. Mr. Panato. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Chair votes, yes, the motion carries. Thank you very much. Good afternoon, I have a deferral as well. Okay, could you... It's the 87 bars. Okay. So this would be four two cases. Hello. Oh. Case B-O-A. 148. 2, 3, 6, 8. With the address of 87 bars street. Along with that, we have case B-O-A. 148. 2, 3, 7, 4. Also with the address of 87 bars street. Would you please go ahead and explain? Yes, I'm turning Lorraine Scatino with a business address of 245 Somnistreet and East Boston. Requesting a deferral because we are still seeking G-Cod compliance and waiting for Boston Water and sewer approval. As well as we had an update in the plans and the plans examiner that was on this is no longer an employee at the city. So we need to get another examiner assigned to re-review this case as well. Okay, how much time do you need? I would say April. Okay, Carolyn. You take full seven, they're April 28. Let's do the 28. Okay. May I have a motion? Motion to defer until April 28. 30 seconds. Thank you. Did you call us on anyone? Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Pabraza. Yes. Yes. Mr. Panato. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. The motion carries. Next we'll go to case B-O-A. 1-7-0-7-3-5-3. With the address of 18 Intervale Street. If the applicant enters their representative or present, what they're pleased with is by your case in the court. Yes. Thank you, Mr. Stembridge. Madam Chair, members of the Board, attorney Ryan Spitz, with the Adams of Aranthsi. With the business address of 168 H Street, First floor, South Boston. Joining me today is the owner, Heron Cabinara. This proposal seeks to raise an existing garage structure to erect a new single family dwelling with garage parking on a lock consistent of approximately 1800 square feet, which creates the need for insufficient log area as the code requires 4,000 square feet within this 3F-4,000 sub-districts. Further, the preexisting conditions of the lock also create the need for relief as to lock width and frontage. This three-story structure, Mr. Ambassador, if I can just trouble you to scroll through the drawings. Thank you. This three-story structure will consist of first floor garage parking in the front in a kitchen located in the rear. Second floor, there will be a living one bedroom in one bathroom. There floor will consist of two bedrooms and two bats. We have additional violations for side yard. This lot is considered an alo lot, for Onical 50, which requires a side yard to be five feet. Our proposed side yard in this revised set of plans is 5.1 feet, which is compliant. Therefore, this violation was stated on the refusal in an era. The final violation that we do have is open space violation. Co-requirement is 650 square feet per dwelling proposal costs for 460 square feet. As this law is in narrow and shallow lot, the compliance with the dimensional requirements for setbacks, the proposal does increase the available open space on the site by adding decks and impervious papers around the home. Prior to concluding that I'm sure I'd just like to note that this proposal has had a few deferrals based upon neighborhood concerns and feedback as well as the planning department's previous recommendation of denial, addressing those concerns to a reasonable proposal here that you're seeing a single family rather than the three family that was originally proposed to meet all the concerns. And again, it is now consistent with the planning departments' recommendation for approval for this single family structure. So at this point, Madam Chair, I'm going to turn it over to you for any questions or comments. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? Here in Nunmay, I have public testimony. Madam Chair and members of the board for the record. My name is Charmney Vembrary. I am the Roxbury Community Engage and Specialist for the Office of Neighborhood Services. The applicant has completed the community process, which consists of a very lightly attended approach, as we negotiated on April 28th with two guests and attended to no comments were made. Next, the proponent presented to Interveo, Nominee Resident Association, Devon Nominee, Brunswick Street Residents Association, Columbia Road Neighborhood Association. Where they voted in opposition to the proposal said, the proposed building is too large for the size of the lot and the lot is too narrow. There are substantial parking and traffic issues at that street, and this project will add to those problems. The proposed tandem basement parking is not workable, and cars trying to leave that garage with great traffic, good luck on the street. The rear balconies will be a fire safety issue as well. To date, our office has received two letters of support, as well as 11 letters of opposition maintained and previously mentioned to the post theme. Thank you for your time in the mayor's office of Neighborhood Services, we'll like to defer to the board for their judgment. Thank you. Next, we have Andrew Galvian. A little Madam Chair, members of the Board, my name is Andrew Galvian, and I'm representing Councillor Arnabhis office, the Councillor would like to go on record and support this project. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, there are no additional comments. Any further comments from the applicant? Yes, thank you, Madam Chair. As we heard from Mr. B. Embray, a lot of those comments in opposition would do to the previous rendering, which again, that we substantially changed those plans, and now we're presenting here what you saw in front of you, is a single family. Most recently, we did provide two additional letters of support, that will receive this morning. We did forward those to the board. Hopefully everyone is in receipt of those. And again, so those were based upon the previous rendering at a three-family, we've made those substantial changes and revised the dimensions of the building as well as the use. Thank you. Would that have a motion? Madam Chair, before we hear from Jeff Hampton. Sure, Mr. Hampton. Are you with us? I'll be with you, Madam Chair. I haven't trouble with the camera. Up there we are. Thank you, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Jeff Hampton, City of Austin Planning Department. Mr. Stoveridge, we did change our recommendation based on the new plans submitted by the appellant. We originally recommended a project of denial, but due to the fact that the appellant had changed the plans and were more in line with the concerns that we had, we changed our recommendation to approval. Okay. Any other questions, Mr. Stoveridge? Okay. May I have a motion? Motion of approval, please. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Stoveridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Bernardo. Mr. Bernardo. Yes. Mr. Bernardo. Yes. The Collins. Yes. Yes. The motion carries. Good luck. Next we have case viewing, 167, 0349, which is the address of 501 boils on the street. If we have the kind of door there, represent the president. Would that please please please? The applicant for five one boils to on? Yeah, I see. Johnny Sanchez. Hi. Thank you very much. And apologies that I'm not on camera. I don't here to have the option at turn on my camera. Good morning, Madam Chair and members of the board. My name is Johnny Sanchez from Goulson and Stores. I'm here on behalf of the applicant, TC 501 boils to on street LLC. I'm joined today by Kevin Curley, Dana Griffin, and Dustin Lord on behalf of ownership. Next slide, please. Sorry to interrupt. Can I just ask a quick question before you start to see it? So you've deferred a few times because of APCC issue. Is that still an issue? It's not. We didn't receive our approval earlier this month on January 14th. Great. Thank you. It's perceived. Thank you. The site that is the subject of the subteals located at Bible One boils in street in back bay, bounded by Newberry Street to the north, boils in street to the south, cloud in street to the west, and a retail building to the east. The site contains an existing one-level ballet only garage. Next slide, please. This is the plot plan for the site. Next slide, please. The applet appeared before the board on July 8th, 2025 for rooftop and garage modifications. At the time, the board voted to approve the rooftop modifications, including a restaurant conditional use, but deferred that on the garage modifications, pending APCC approval, which the applicant did receive earlier this month. The board's consideration today is only for the garage proposal. Next slide, please. Next slide, please. The applet is proposing to add 32 net new parking spaces from 114 spaces, 246 spaces. This is a slight downward adjustment from what we proposed in July, which was for a total of 167 spaces with 53 net new spaces. The applet is also proposing to add public parking to the garage. Next slide, please. The proposal requires the board to approve of two conditional use permits, given the building's location and the restricted parking overly district. Next slide, please. For background, the building is a pre-code structure dating to the 1940s, less extensively altered in 1961. It contains approximately 600,000 square feet of office and retail uses. For building of the size, it has a relatively small garage containing 114 spaces. And for context, based on current BTB guidelines, the building is permitted to have up to 212 spaces. This fact has made it very difficult to attract and retain tenants at the site. The applet is therefore looking to modestly increase the parking space count by 32 net new spaces. What you see here is a ground level site plan of the site. Any changes that we discussed today will not require any physical modifications to the building whatsoever. No additional curb cuts, acts to need rest will remain off of the new barricade as shown on this site. Next slide, please. The applet is also requesting to add public parking to the site to alleviate parking demand in the neighborhood, given the building's location along to the largest commercial quarters in the city, Newbury and Wilson streets. Existing data shows that the parking needs are underserved at and around the site with no available public parking facility within a 300 foot radius of the site. Additionally, that have been ongoing public parking reductions in the vicinity of the site, resulting very limited up and elusive on-street parking availability. The garage's location near the entrance to Newbury Street with quick access to Sturo Drive, the MassPike in I-93 will help alleviate parkers, will help parkers enter and exit the neighborhood easily and reduce local traffic. And on this site, you can on this slide, you can see where the 32 net new spaces will be added. It'll be added in combination with some new strike spaces, as well as some additional stackers. Next slide, please. And as you can see here, this is a study of the public parking facilities and the vicinity of the site, none within 300 feet of the site, which is what the APCC uses as the local surrounding area. Next slide, please. Now, as mentioned, none of these changes would require any physical modifications to the building. And it's worth mentioning again that these requests have all been approved by the APCC. With that, we conclude our presentation. And we'd be happy to answer any questions that the board may have. Thank you. Thank you. Questions from the board? Hearing none, may I have public testimony? Madam Chair and members, see you all. Office of Neighborhood Services, this applicant completed the community process, our office hosted an abouters meeting on May 6, 2025, at which no concerns per race, the neighborhood association of the back bays and non-opposition. With that background, our office deferred judgment to the board. Thank you. Thank you. Next, we have minor queries. Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Madam Chair, members of the board, this is minor per race representing the Carpenters' Union. On behalf of hundreds of union carpenters, the Living Worker, I see a boss on what I'm going to represent and support of this project. Thank you. Madam Chair, there are no additional comments. Okay. With that, may I have a motion? Motion to approve. There's second. Second. Mr. Stonebridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Berraza. Yes. Mr. Monado. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Chair votes. Yes, the motion carries. Thank you very much. Look. Next, we have case B-O-A-177-6341 with the address of 19 bond wall street. If the applicant's and or they represent the president, would they please find the case in the world? One second. Hello. Hello. Hello. Marco Libar, this is your case? Yes. Yes, it doesn't make case. Okay, so please take your name and address for the record and proceed. Yes, I don't know what to say. So can you just read what you're proposing and what zoning relief you need? Yes, even the team on the side of the house, they exit from basement and the deck on the top of the garage, just to realize it's been there for so long, but I never think it's supposed to be legalized. Yes. And I don't have any space to houses, you don't have room to say any space, so think I just ask you and have to seek like a legalizing. Are there questions from the board? Hearing none, may I have public testimony? Madam Chair and members of the board for the record, my name is Jerry V. Bembery and the Dutch has the community engaged with specialists for the office of the board services. The applicant has completed the committee process, which consists of in a butter's meeting, facilitating on dis and prefers with new what butter is present. Following the butter's meeting, no further community process was required and today our office has not received any further community feedback. Thank you for your time and the most office of neighborhood services. We'd like to defer to the board for the judgment. Thank you. Thank you. Next, we have Catherine Walker. Catherine? Yes, hello. My name is Catherine Walker and Madam Chair and members of the board. And I live on Glendale Street. The edge of my property is about 10 feet from Mr. De Barreuse's home. I did write a letter and that letter was submitted to the Office of Neighborhood Services as well. Sorry, Mr. Bembery, did you get it? My concern is, as I said in the letter, I believe the neighborhood appreciated the work that Mr. De Barreuse has done on the inside of his house because the house was in terrible shape when he bought it in, I think, 2009. But then did substantial building on the back of the house added a third floor porch and the structure on the top of the garage and along the side of the house. And those structures are virtually on the property line. I was not aware of a meeting. I didn't hear about a community meeting until after the date had passed. So I apologize that I wasn't present for that. But the entire structure of the back porches and the garage topping are virtually on the property line. And no variances were sought for those. And I'm not even sure that was a building permit for those. I know that I submitted to 311 at concern because I thought the third floor porch was tremendously unsafe. And so to plain up upstairs, they are able to put out any railings. So I am very much opposed and my neighbors close to me who are not here today because they're working are also concerned about trying to legalize the fact. Thank you so much. Mr. DeMarros, can you address your butter concern? Mr. DeMarros? Yes. It was not the air contact floor here. The previous telling, just using the deck, but I close it. The air just the top roof is just the exit from the attic. Any other questions from the board? Can we from the planning department on this? I'm just a little confused about potential variances that weren't sought? Especially since I was not able to, I agree. I was not able to see the recommendation either. Thank you Madam Chair. I'm Mr. Boyd, Jeff Hinton, City of Boston Planning. I don't have anything. I don't have a refusal letter. I don't have any plans. So we don't have anything for you unfortunately. So I think with that, because I think what's critical is a survey plot plan and that's what's missing. I think what makes the most sense will be to provide a deferral so that adequate drawings be submitted to BPD. That's my feedback. Will that man have a motion? Sure, is that action? Yes, okay. I feel how man I would like to put forward a motion of deferral so the applicant can provide a certified plot plan by a license surveyer to be submitted and adequate drawings to be submitted to BPD for our review as well. There's second. Second. There's Fembridge. Yes. Mr. Relentzea? Yes. Ms. Turner? Yes. Is that a brazo? Yes. It's a tomato. Yes. The Collins? Yes. The Chair votes yes. The motion carries. Mr. DeMaro, how much time do you think you would need to do this and Caroline what's available? Yeah, and Caroline I would say that this is a small project it could go in front of the subcommittee. It was in front of the subcommittee. What I have to do? No. So you should probably check in directly with the ZBA staff. We need a certified plot plan and adequate drawings so you should check back with ZBA staff and Caroline if you wanted to have someone call him offline for a date for an area that would be appreciated. Madam Chair, can I just get another clarification? Do you have a sense of why the subcommittee put it forward to the full board committee? I just wasn't there. There was no content discussed. Okay, so I could go back to subcommittee. Yeah, it was that subcommittee and me. Same as the next one, the person just wasn't at the subcommittee. Perfect. Thanks for the clarification. We can just schedule for the next subcommittee's February 12 and then March 19. The next goal board we have is the Great Mind Forest March 10th or March 24th. So Mr. Debarles, how much time do you think you'll need to provide the mentioned items, the plot plan and the drawings? I don't know. Nothing about rabbit. I don't know. Okay, so I think it would make sense to have a staff call him directly. Okay, I just worried with like notice requirements. Can we just... I understand, but I think he needs the support. Yeah, for sure. But can we temporarily schedule for March 24th? Sure. That sounds good. Thank you. I just want him to have adequate time. Yes, of course. All right, thank you. I'll make emotions with Debarles March 24th. Okay. Okay, Mr. Stembridge. Yeah. Mr. Valencia. Yeah. Ms. Turner. Yes. Ms. Betaraza. Yes. Ms. Penauto. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Okay, Chair votes. Yes, motion carries. Next, we have case bill A 1762034 for the address of 774 East Broadway. If the applicant and whether represent the president, please explain the case to me. Yes, thank you, Mr. Stembridge. Madam Chair, members of the Board of Attorney Ryan Spitz with the Adams and Marancy Business Address of 168th Street First Floor. So Boston, joining me today is one of the owners, Jim O'Donovan, as well as the project architect Anthony Pazani. This proposal is for a conversion of a single family dwelling to a two-family dwelling at 774 East Broadway by way of interior renovation in the addition of a small egress platforms. The use is allowed as we are located within an MFR sub-district. Also, this type of use is consistent with the fabric of the neighborhood as there are many other two and three-family structures located in a very close proximity to this proposal and as stated within the planning department's recommendation of approval. Unit one will be a three-bed located on the first floor at the embassment. Unit two will be a three-bed located on the second and third floor. The proposed project requires relief for insufficient off-street parking in insufficient additional lot area. The proposed project demonstrates substantial compliance with most of the dimensional requirements. However, with a lot size of 2,192 square feet, the property is conforming to the minimum lot size requirement at 2,000 square feet but requires relief for the additional lot area with the additional thousand square feet of lot size requirement for the new unit. Again, this type of lot size is contextual to the steel of the site with several other similar lots on this block already housing two and three unit uses. The code requires 1.5 parking spaces for a new unit of housing but this proposal is physically impossible to provide any parking. The property is located in a highly walkable neighborhood with excellent access to public transportation including this proximity to multiple MBTA bus routes along Broadway. Further, it is aligned with the mayor's initiative of reducing dependency on private vehicles along with the transportation parking guidelines for this neighborhood. The proposed project presents Dauphal adaptive reuse of an existing structure creating housing in a manner that respects the self-hosted neighborhoods character while meeting contemporary housing needs. In concluding, this type of proposal is aligned with the mayor's ADU policy except that it is invests our own rather than owner occupied and it's also consisting with the planning departments' recommendation of approval. At this point Madam Chair, I'm going to pause for any questions or comments from the board. Thank you. Questions from the board? Hearing none, man, public testimony? Yes, Madam Chair, members. So you're also at the Office of Neighborhood Services in South applicant as completed the community process. The social statement of the butter's meeting on October 15th, 2025 at which the butter's were opposed to the application. Butter's were concerned about the placement of the decks concerned about the increase of density on parking in the area and the aesthetic of the structure. The office has received a petition and opposition to this application with 87 signatures. 39 signatures are in the 300 foot, about 48 signatures signed in address. Outside the radius, listed no address or listed in the eligible address. The office is also separately received 15 letters of opposition and with that background, the city point neighborhood association is opposed to this application and with that background, our office deferred judgment to the board. Thank you. Thank you. Next we have Ashley from City Council Refuge. Hi, Councilor Flynn, would like to go on record an opposition due to feedback from neighbors, a butter's in the city point neighborhood association on privacy concerns with the location of the proposed decks related to neighboring properties as well as public safety concerns with the potential for grills on the decks and quality of life issues with the potential for noise. More over Councilor Flynn heard from neighbors on lack of parking and negative impacts of self-boss and existing parking crisis. The lack of good faith compromised with neighbors on the deck location in a staircase as well as the ability for neighbors to make repairs to their sidewalls and property if approved. For these reasons, Councilor Flynn remains opposed at this time. Thank you. Thanks. Thank you. Next we have a Robert Hopkins. Good afternoon. My name is Robert Hopkins. I'm an attorney with Phillips in Angling with the business address of one Washington, Mall Boston. I represent Diane and Ivan Smith who own and reside at 776 East Broadway and are direct up butters to the project on behalf of the Smiths. I'm here to oppose the project. First, I will note that not only do the Smiths oppose the project, but as you heard, 88 members of the immediately surrounding neighborhood opposite and so does the City Point Neighborhood Association. The Smiths oppose the project because the proposed three rear decks will be located directly next to the Smiths III bathroom windows. Three feet away providing anyone on those decks with direct views therein and eliminating the Smiths privacy in the most private room of their house. The decks now technically compliant with the required three foot setback does not alleviate this privacy problem. If anything, it saw the applicant's problem of meeting an additional variance for side yard setback. Further, the close proximity of the decks and the associated steelweb stairwell will eliminate the existing light and air coming into the bathroom windows and will impair the Smiths ability to access portions of the side of their dwelling for maintenance and repairs. Lastly, I know that this board has a difficult job to do. However, this project simply does not meet any of the mandatory legal criteria for the grant of the two variances. There are absolutely no special conditions relating to the property of the dwelling, better unique from those in the neighborhood, and there is no hardship that the applicant wants to alter the dwelling in a manner that requires a variance is not legal hardship under the variance case law. For these reasons, we ask that the appeal be denied or at the very least, we ask that the project be conditioned to eliminate all rear decking. Thank you. Thank you. All right, next we have a Morish. If you can immediately or sell please, we have 90 seconds. You're mute, sir. Morish, you're mute. Here you sir, you look like you're still on mute. Thank you. Well, let's go on to the next person and hopefully Mr. Morrison will resolve that issue by then. Okay now. Oh, we can hear you now. Okay, you can listen. Thank you. Thank you, Chair. My name is Dr. Robin E. Morris with my right-right hand, your name are said from eight one one East probably self-poster. We oppose this project based on the decking situation, which is well discussed by the lawyer just now. It's important to note that the development's egress requirements can be readily met via a standard staircase or a squinkless system making these intrusive undefined decks unnecessary. We strongly advocate that the denial of these disruptive decking components by the zoning board. Personally, we have the exact same situation happened to us at eight Lebanese Broadway where decks were placed at eight or nine East Broadway with direct provision into our tenants bathrooms and we find that I'm totally unacceptable. So we oppose this project as is. Thank you very much. Thank you. Okay. Next, I think we have somebody from Senator Cohen's. Haley Wong's. If you can unmute yourself now. Hello, can you hear me? Yes ma'am. My name is Adam Chair. I'm really the board. Sorry, I might. I don't know how to put my video on. Senator Haley from Senator Collins office. Senator Collins acknowledges that the proponent has gone through the community process and made efforts to mitigate the concerns of the direct debuts relative to article 68 but at this time at an impasse. We'd like to see the debuts issues resolved before the commencement of this project at this location. Thank you. Next, we have Peter Hilsiness. Hi, I can the board. Do you have any? Yes sir. Hi, my name is Peter Galzenes. I live at seven seventies Broadway. I'm two doors down. I've been on this street since 1988. My end of opportunity to move back to the city in 2023, bought the house that I grew up in. I live there with my wife and my two boys who are five and eight. We would echo the concerns about the increased density at this property and the issues with the back decks and parking are all front of mind, especially with young children coming and going constantly. Parking is a critical issue on this street. I just wanted zero in on the comments that were made by council for the SNES for a moment. Just on the merits of this application, the applicant does not meet the requirements for variance. I've heard the cases all morning and some folks are in quite a jam and zoning relief certainly seems appropriate. There's nothing at this property that merits the variances. This is not an odd lot. There's no financial hardship with keeping this property as a single family. This property is assessed at well over a million dollars as a single family. I do think that this is an effort to sort of increase the return on investment, but that is not a valid reason for zoning relief. And so for those reasons, I hope this developer does a great job with this property. It's a beautiful, beautiful home. I just don't think that the proposal right now is appropriate. So thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Again, motion made, seconded vote was taken, and it was overwhelming in opposition. With that, several conversations were happening within that meeting in so far as those rare decks. And they are not really a necessity. These are two women that are seniors that that is their family home where they grew up in and for any developer to come in and to really upset their quality of life, particularly where they are requiring zoning variances. We ask that you deny this with prejudice. Thank you. Thank you. Is it a love policy? Yeah. The person with it soon user? You have 90 seconds? Yes. My name is Robert McDonald, and I speak in support of this project. Thank you very much. Thank you. My name is Tiffany. I don't know this should not come in. Can the applicant address those concerns, especially the necessity of those decks? It sounds like both of them. Yes. Thank you, Madam Chair. Yes. So I just want to remind everybody, these are not decks of Belkines. In the original proposals, they were decks of Belkines. We substantially reduced them due to the concerns of the neighborhood, eliminating the setback violations. These are merely simple egress platforms that consist of approximately 52 square feet, just to allow reasonable and safe egress in case of an actual accident. Given the fact that the direct debuts do actually have real decks in the back of the area that are actually non-conforming right up to the property line of this property, we don't express an issue with that, but we did provide some sort of reasonable accommodation considering the concerns of privacy matters, and they're which are non-zoning related, that we did decide that we could put up these private-seed streets on the rear porch if those are concerned. Again, this isn't the deck type space to put grills out as that was mentioned by Council Flynn. It's not even a space that you'll be able to even put a chair or even a table out. Again, simply egress platforms for safe means of egress. Again, I'd like to remind the board that no conventional setbacks, whether it was in the rear yard or the side yard pertaining to these egress platforms. Again, we definitely understand that the parking component of this, but simply given the location that we're on East Broadway directly in the middle of major bus routes that travel to Andrew station, Broadway station, South station, and even downtown area, makes it a much great proposal of increasing the housing counts on a property like this with L Touch in the exterior. And lastly, I'm going to end it, Madam Chair. If this was owner occupied under the ADU policy, this would have been having a conversation with the Zoni Board as it would be a compliant project under that policy. So again, given because it's investor-owned, we're here today seeking the relief. Thank you. Thank you. And can I ask a quick question? You mentioned 52 square feet egress platforms. So what are the length and width dimensions? How much is it jutting out? Mr. Pazani, you are against specifically. I know what the point is. I have to with. Oh, okay. Thank you. Mr. Pazani, four feet. And then I don't know if you could go to draw, if you could go to your number five. But they are, they're not. I just saw it on the back of the bottle, did you say? It is minimum. It's just a landing. I can confirm that. Do you have a question regarding the window? Is the one window that was noted? Is that on the 7776 East Broadway property? Yes. That would have been done. I just, you're getting out. Okay. Yes. Okay. Great. And that window just to remind you all too, that comes right up to the actual property, what's the property line itself, which is pre-existing, nonconforming. Right. And the deck doesn't even touch that. Yes, correct. Yeah. Okay. It clears that. So, okay. I'm going to go ahead and put on the floor feet. So maybe Ms. Bedarazza, you can answer this too. From the floor feet, turning out how much space is to the end of the back of their property, then, like the space between you. I don't have that in front of me. I think Mr. Pazani can tell you. Yes. Can you answer that question, Mr. Pazani? Yes. The site itself is 125 feet deep. There is an in excess of 70 feet from the back of the house to the end of the property. The purpose of the decks is really to allow for egress from the fourth and third floor. And also, it's the stair provides the stair. The egress stair provides access to the back yard. I think, Ms. I think Madam Chair was asking, once the deck is built from the edge of the deck, how far, how much, what's the distance to the adjacent property, which is 7, 7, 6, east Broadway? Yes. Three feet to the property line, Ms. Bedarazza and Ms. Dawn. And then so the deck itself, though, is not like at that line, it's the question, like, how much space is there? Because there's concern about privacy. Yes. Yes. So it's three feet off of the actual property line itself. So it's compliant as far as the dimensional side yard is required. And again, just the egress platform. And can I ask just what alternative? I think the answer to your question and Madam Chair, Dawn, and I'm just projecting from an estimate, I would think that there would be maybe like six feet to the edge of where the window is in terms of clearance. That's also convenient, maybe. I'm sorry, Madam Chair. So this is not the time for that where, yeah. So if there are still issues surrounding the board regarding the size of the actual deck, I think to comply with the building code is our second meet of egress, that can be further discussed during design review if in fact it is approved. Well, that's my question because the people have suggested that there are alternatives to this for the egress purpose. I don't know if you've explored those already or yet we tried our store everything and we made a combination based on the original proposal. Again, you know, I know we keep hearing debt, but it's more or less, you know, it's a land that's an egress platform. I have no other way that I can technically describe it. Actually, the survey plot plan shows a really good description of the clearance of the adjacent property. So that would be page three of not-mind. And you can see there's enough clearance that I don't really see any issues, and especially if they're going to create privacy screens right there. So you can see how much clearance to the adjacent property there is. Other questions from the board? Yes, do we have any opinion from the planning department? Did you have a hand on here? Yes, thank you Madam Chair, members of the board, Jeff Hampton City Boston Planning Department. We reviewed this case based on the rejection letter that ISD proposed, and since the landing was not an issue, our recommendation was for approval of the change of occupancy based on the land size and how they could not physically get any chisels into their property. So we recommended approval. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Is there a motion? Madam Chair, I'm going to put forward a motion of approval with a proviso that the structure at the rear has privacy screens to allow some privacy. That's the motion. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Mettabraza. Yes. Mr. Pannato. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Chair votes, yes, the motion carries. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Chairman. We would be Madam Chair as we turn to the first case of the discussion scheduled for 1130 AM to four case B-O-A, 177-4198, with the address of two to four Danny Road. It's the applicant and the other representative of President. They put this plan to the board. Hello. Yes. Are you here for Danny Road? Yes, ma'am. Yes. Great. Can you state your name and address for the record and please proceed? Yes. I am Alex Mustal 167 Needham Street, Delem, Massachusetts, or two or two six. And good morning and members of the board. I am here today in regard to B-O-A, 177-4198, two four Danny Road, what 18th, three-ville. I seek relief and conditionally used to build a two family dwelling at two four Danny Road, which require variances from the zoning board to several violations. To begin, I want to create much needed housing within the city of Boston, in hopes to work with the B-P-D-A in the neighborhood to create and erect a two family dwelling on an empty pre-existent lot, the compliments and blends in with the neighborhood. I am experienced builder in a history and reputation of creating housing. I am proud of previously created housing in the neighborhood that requires zoning relief. I am in the business of construction, but I like to consider myself as someone who is in the business of working together with others to make neighborhood stronger, vibrant and peaceful. The two family structure I seek to build at two or four Danny Road, the one in the section of Boston, the consist of commercial residential, single and monthly family houses on four to six thousand square feet of less. Two four Danny Road located in a two or five thousand district aboard 18. Previously, we didn't meet with the resident in the neighborhood. We spoke to them as well, it's about these plans. Meeting how within the neighborhood, back in September, I believe, met with some opposition to the lot size concern about row and snowy and general concerns about the structures and violations before you today. Well, I wish I could report to you that the meeting was a success and everyone approved office proposal. I can only tell you I tried my best to address the concerns of the neighborhood and called me green to set out pest control measures to address the insistent road and issues in the neighborhood. Restricted construction to hours that will not affect the quality of life of residents. There were several thoughts expressed about the proposal I initially intend to honor should do. I will approve this request including Colorado landscaping overall design. Two or four Danny Road was shown as a four thousand square foot plot number 34 on the plan created north of Coney indeed prior to 1918 according to zoning intentions and practices of the time. The plan and plot plan and provide to board for reference. Lot 34 that joins Lot 33 and other lots that were created and approved prior to the current zone and called but would need to seek relief from the current call to give you an idea of the fabric of housing in the neighborhood. On one side Lot 35 to single family structure in Lot 33 is a three family structure settled on the four thousand square foot plot which is enveloped and one that of housing and sketch structures to author neighborhood including another nearby three family. The situation aligns approximately three seven hundred square feet. The structure we are proposing is two F split that addresses in their suitable needs for today's family as well as Austria parking for each unit. Out of those 69 dash section 295 Austria parking design. I will claim provided to the board. So it's Austria parking for each unit on the property. Out of the line Lot area insufficient. The cover-quies of the property of five thousand square feet but the right at only four thousand. We have designed the house in such a way that it does not encompass the entire line in the structure. In light of self I consistent with other lines in the area including lots on the street. Out of the 69 section nine additional line area insufficient. Again due to the lot sides we need our request to relief from the board. The line is 50 feet by 80 feet but the current call was 50 by a hundred. The line area from additional unit requires three thousand square feet. We are seeking relief from this condition because this slot is only four thousand square feet. With a lot was created prior to this on the code currently and formally adopted a lot like others in the neighborhood tricky to non-metag violation due to the evolving zone of code changes. We are seeking Sam or similarly that we have to be granted all lots on the street needed to perform with a current zone of code. Out of the 69 section nine floor area ratio excessive. The current the code currently calls for .5 FAR in this district. Outplants call for 1500 square feet per unit was triggered the FAR violation but these units have first and second floor per unit that do not violate any hydroquions strictly in our tactically and tastefully designed. As I will mention at the end of my presentation we are willing to work with design review at the BBTA to create needed housing and we will answer the aid board. We are seeking relief from the provision. Out of the 69 section nine usable open space and sufficient. The code calls for .1700 1750 feet per unit due to the FAR design and the building to accommodate use. We are seeking relief from the code along with any design review condition at the board with team advisable. Out of the 69 section nine front yard and sufficient. The code currently calls for 20 feet front yard from the side where we are supposed to be a 10 feet which is under the requirement. We are seeking relief from the requirement and as the structure itself makes minimal intrusional on the side where I mean it is conforming with the average front yard setback of other structures in the neighborhood. Subtract some of which are abutting the sidewalk. Out of the 69 section nine radiate and sufficient. The code calls for 20 feet setback. The structure is approximately 20 feet from the radiate boundary. This is in due and part because of the large size as well as the footprint of the structure. We are again asking for relief for the requirements quietly because of the hardship that a lot of size and zoning code have restricted in condition for me to meet the current zoning code. It calls and I would like again to reiterate that we are seeking relief from the zoning code but I want to work with the BPDA to satisfy conditions in concerns of this proposal. This lot was created in an acceptable time and it is now triggered violations because the zoning code has changed since then. We recognize that these changes are for the better but they have causing an undue hardship that we seek relief from. There is a need for housing in the city of Boston and I mean never be met if there was not some relief given to lots created before the zoning code. We want to work with the city and enable to address the residents concerns as well as give us the relief that we seek. With that, they won't answer any questions you may have. Any questions from the board? Can you go look at a site plan and can you address whether there is an ability to do one curb cut to provide that parking? Can you just tell us which one is the site plan that shows parking? There is one, oh there it is, right. There is one curb cut per unit, one on the left side, one on the right side. Is there an ability to do one curb cut and still have the parking? Where is the parking plan? Is there a parking plan that shows the parking? We can work with the design review on that. Yes, we are capable of doing that when curb cut. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Madam Chair and members of the board for the record, my name is Jeremy Bembery and the Hyde Park Community Engagement Specialist for the Office of Payboard Services. The applicant has completed the community process which consisted of a lightly intended to put us meeting facilitated on October 2nd. Of the approach present both the voice their opposition to the proposal voicing a concern for the three family located at Six Danny Road who currently uses the lot for parking. Residents were concerned about the loss of parking that the neighborhood could use to relieve the stress of parking in the area. A previous owner of the property voiced their concerns that if they were advised by the city that the lot could not be sold or built upon. A previous community meeting was held by the proponent where residents opposed the proposal again referencing the loss of parking space in the area. Lastly a concern for the size of the proposal stating that they filled the lot is too small for a two family and would be more supportive of a one family at Six Danny Road would lose its green space. Next the proponent presented to read the watch neighborhood association on September 18th where they voted to oppose the proposal as well. The neighborhood association expressed concerns for regarding the road and control literally to no parking provided and did not see a need for additional housing. To date our office has received two letters on opposition to the proposal and a 32 signature petition of opposition. Thank you for your time and the mayor's office of neighborhood services were elected to defer to the board for their judgment. Thank you. I'm Chair and there are no additional comments. Okay. May I have a motion? Madam Chair I would like to put for a motion of approval with a proposal that the project undergoes BPD site plan review to um that's one actually it's with two provisels one is the BPD provides site plan and review to locate the building on the site and then the second provider is that the project only has one co-cut versus two for the project. Is there a second? Okay. Mr. Stembridge. Are you unmuted Mr. Stembridge? Yes you are Mr. Stembridge. You need to unmute yourself. I'm sorry I'll protect you for the difficult matter of Chair. Yes. Thank you. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Ms. Turner? Yes. Ms. Betapurasa? Yes. Ms. Panato? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Okay well it's just the motion carries. Thank you very much. That's all we have, Madam Chair. All right thank you everyone for your time and attention. Have a good day. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.