 you you Hello and this meeting is being Operated Thanks, good morning. I know it's a Pepe Tuesday. All right. Perfect. All right. Good morning, the city of Boston's only board repeal hearing for July 25th, 2023 is now in section. This hearing is being conducted in accordance with the applicable provisions of the open meeting law, including the updated provisions enacted by the legislature last year. The new law allows the board to continue its practice following virtual hearings until March 2025. This hearing of the board is being held remotely via the Zoom webinar event platform. The hearing is also being live-street. In order to ensure this hearing of the board is open to the public, members of the public may access this hearing through telephone and video conferencing. The information for connecting to this hearing is listed on today's hearing agenda, which is posted on the public notices page of the city's website, Boston.gov. Members of the public will enter the virtual hearing as attendees, which means you will not see yourself on the screen and you will be muted throughout unless administratively unmuted when asked to comment. Or members, applicants, and attorneys, or representatives will participate in the hearing as panelists, and they will appear alongside the presentation materials when speaking. Panelists are strongly encouraged to keep video on while presenting to the board. As with our in-person meetings, comments, and support will be followed by comments in opposition. The order of comments is as follows. Elected officials, representatives of elected officials, and members of the public. The chair may limit the number of people called upon to offer a comment and the time for commenting as time constraints require. For that reason, the board prefers to hear from members of the public who are most impacted by a project. That is those individuals who live closest to the project. If you wish to comment on an appeal, please click the raise hand button. Along the bottom of your screen in the Zoom webinar platform, click it again and your hand should go down. When the host sees your hand, you will receive a request to unmute yourself. Select yes and you should be able to talk. If you are connected to the hearing by telephone, please press star-9 to raise and lower your hand. You must press star six to unmute yourself after you receive the request from the host. Those called upon to comment will be asked to state their name address first and then can provide their comment. In the interest of time and to ensure that you have enough time to do so, please raise your hand as soon as Mr. Stembridge reads the address into the record. Do not raise your hand before the relevant address is called upon or the meeting host will not know to call on you at the appropriate time. These instructions will be pretty dropping. All right. Mr. Stembridge, Chair. I want to add your vote. Good morning, Ms. Peter Baraza. Good morning, Madam Chair. Present. Good morning, Mr. Shepherd. Morning, Madam Chair. Present. Good morning, Mr. Valencia. Good morning, Madam Chair. Present. Good morning, Ms. Padao. Good morning, Madam Chair, present. Good morning, Mr. Collins. Good morning, Madam Chair, present. Good morning. And before I turn it over to Mr. Stembridge, just as a reminder, we have a lot on the agenda today. I'm going to ask both presenters and commenters to be green so that we can keep the meeting flowing. With that, I will turn it over to Mr. Stembridge. Thank you, Madam Chair. First on the agenda, we have the extension to 9.30 AM. First is case B-O-A 826424. The ad hoc of 1199 to 12, three blue-kill happiness. The lead for the originally granted on August 28, 2018, this is the fourth request for an extension with the extension to expire. Should it be to expire on August 18, 2024? Is the applicant and the representative present? I am asked if it was to expire. Do you have a question? Do you have a question? The answer is raised hand. What's the key raising that again? You're welcome, Murray. Go ahead. Just to raise this. I'm meeting you. Can you hear me? Yes sir. My name is Murray Glazer. 28 Liberty Pole Road. Hang a mess. Blake on Contracting. I represent the owner. I'm just in anticipation of a start for the project. We discovered some, the spestos and possibly other, has this material or in the process of, of doing environmental study. And as soon as we complete, we, we plan on starting the project. And we're asking for, for an extension for a full year. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Hearing none, may I have a motion? We have a lot on the agenda today, may I have a motion? A motion to extend to a year from ten days, the day to that. The day's the same as in the bridge. The day through the extension, we go to August 18th of that year. Go. Thank you. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Brown. Yes. Mr. Schephard. Yes. Mr. Muncia. Yes. Hanoi. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Chair also wrote, yes, motion carries. Hello. Thank you. Next we have case, POA 117, 6th to 035, with the address of 1717-1719, I Park Avenue, with the visually granted on August 18th of 2021. This is the first request for an extension, with the extension, to expire on August. Go to August 18th, 2024. Is that the applicant and or the representative? Yes. Thank you. Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board, my name is David Lentler. Cool, nice to see you. Before I enter the landing app in Boston. And I'm here on behalf of Ed Mugliorat, the proponent for this project. It's a multi-family agreement about and kind of full of retail, archery parking. We're going through additional article 8, process, additional large private premium process, that relates to the multi-family agreement being delivered on those rentals, instead of the next event on ownership. And there are additional affordable events as well. And so, as part of that process running, of course, we're asking for a one-year extension. Thank you. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Here, I'm not in the motion. Motion to go from us. Thank you. Of course, it's to approve until August 18, 2024. Thank you. Mr. Neppard. Yes. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Valencia. Mr. Valencia, sorry. Mr. Ado. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Chair, the votes. Yes. Motion carries. Thank you. Mr. Van der Schupper. Final operators, Mr. Schupper, none to it. We have five companions. First is case of BOA 606484. The address of 64 to 64C, Allenville Street. Next, with that, we have case of BOA 606486. The address being 66 to 66C Allenville Street. With that, we have case of BOA 606487. The address being 66848 Allenville Street. Along with that, we have case of BOA 606488. The address of 70 to 70C Allenville Street. The address of 70 to 70C Allenville Street. Is the outskirts and or their representative. What? Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. Mark LeCast. LeCast laws 75 Arlington Street in Boston. Attorney for the project proponent. This is represented by Jack Lynn Neu Nes of the Wonder Group. And also with us and the event that are questions for the architect. Beth Whitaker of Merge Architects. Members of the board. This is a project concerning a two-acre parcel of land. 87,000 square feet on Allenville Street and West Rocksberry across from the Faulkner hospital. Originally approved by this board in December of 2016. And entered at ISD in March of 2017. And that was all following a very extensive article 80 approval process of the BPDA, wherein the BPDA board twice approved this project throughout 2016, first as a 20-unit project and later as an 18-unit project, with the recommendation to this board that the zoning relief be approved, which of course this board did in 2017. Following the board's approval in 2017, there were two separate butter appeals that were filed in the Superior Court. One was filed by Spring House Senior Living, which is a direct a butter, next door, and another was filed by a group of plaintiffs known as the Trembley Group, not direct a butters, but within the 300-foot radius. The Spring House Senior Living case was settled by agreement with parties to reduce the scale of this project to three buildings and 16 units from what had been previously approved. In the other case, the Trembley case, brought by the butters, was heard and decided by the Massachusetts Superior Court Judge Rosemary Conway, who issued a 25-page memorandum of decision in June of 2019, so two years after the appeal had been filed. Judge Conway conclusively determined that the plaintiffs lacked standing to challenge the zoning relief. In just one sentence from Judge Conway's memorandum, the Wonder Group argues that plaintiffs lacked standing because they have not alleged or submitted evidence of any actual or cognizable harms from the project. The Court agrees that decision was entered in the Superior Court in 2019, June of 2019. The plaintiff butters then appealed that decision to the Massachusetts Appeal Court, and that case remained pending for two years largely as a result of the court-related closures during the COVID pandemic. In July of 2021, on the very day that the plaintiffs were required to file an appellate brief in the appeal court, they voluntarily dismissed their appeal, and the appeal court entered a dismissal with prejudice on the docket and notified the Superior Court that the case had been dismissed with prejudice. The Superior Court case was then entered on the docket as final in Judge Rosemary Conway's 25-page decision, finding that the plaintiffs lacked standing, became the law of this case. Following all that, we then went back to the BPDA and filed the notice of project change, reflecting the reduced in-scale project that is consistent with the settlement with the Spurring House Senior Living Center, and that is 16 units in three buildings, which does not require any further zoning relief than had already been granted by this board. The notice of project change was approved by the BPDA in August of 2021, and the BPDA made two findings in its August of 2021 decision. It found that the proposed project is not anticipated to require any further zoning relief than that, which was already granted by the ZBA in March of 2017. Under the proposed project received approval by the BPDA board, which it did, a proponent intends to appear before the ZBA board, final arbiter, to affirm the zoning record and decision for the proposed project as reflected through the second notice of project change. The BPDA board also found that the director should issue a determination pursuant to Article 80, waiving the requirement of any further review as the notice of project change does not significantly increase the impact of the proposed project. So those were the votes taken by the BPDA board in August of 2021, began approving the smaller in-scale project. A BPDA design review was required both by this board's decision and by the notice of project change. So after that approval, we then engaged in an extensive BPDA design review process with Beth Whitaker and Michael Canizo and his team at the BPDA, resulting in a BPDA design approval in August of 2022. Interestingly, this board should note that the butters also filed a superior court appeal of the notice of project change approval to the superior court. In that case, resulted in a dismissal of the plaintiffs' claim in January 6th of 2023, the notice recently. So the plaintiffs have had their case heard by the superior court twice and on both occasions the superior court has dismissed their claims. This board final obritor submitted to the plans examiner at ISD who has determined that it is appropriate for board final obritor and that no further zoning issues or relief are implicated by the BPDA design review plans. So in some, what we're seeking today is simply confirmation that the prior zoning relief, which was recently extended by this board to July of 2024, as applied to the reduced in-scale project of 16 units in three buildings, as shown on the BPDA design review plans, are fund and confirm as part of the prior record. How about to take any questions? Thank you. Any questions from the board? I do have a question mark. When you reduce the size, it's just basically eliminating funding existing proposed building location. Yes. It went from five to three, you just basically eliminated two, but the location remained. The buildings are actually pulled even further away from the Spring House Senior Living Center. So increasing the setbacks is what was part of the reduction as well. But yes, eliminating two buildings and then pulling the buildings further away from the Spring House property boundary. But the massing and the plans did not change. That's right. Okay, great. I don't have any further questions. Thank you, ma'am. Should I follow up? Yes. So when you look at the size of the project, is you also have a look at what is parking spots and how many parking units do you have at this moment? Beth, what's the final count on parking spaces? What can spaces? Oh, sorry. I have to look at that one fact up. Give me one more bit. Yeah. That's 27. Is Mr. Munez with your team? Jacqueline Munez. Sorry, she looks like she may want to answer. Oh, Jacqueline, go ahead. You can unmute and turn the camera on. Okay, hi there. Yes, we have 28 parking spots. 28, okay. Yes. And is that the same as before or? No, we had 41 in the original approval. Okay. Any other questions from the board? We have anybody from the BPDA on? Just, it seems like there's been a lot of overfix. All right. So. Mr. Hampton, are you with us? Thank you, Madam Chair. I'm Mr. Board. Yeah, I can confirm to what Mr. Clanton LeCass has testified to today. I mean, I really don't have anything more to add to it. It's been a pretty lengthy process to say the least. Okay. Hearing no other, or are there any other questions from the board? Hearing none, may I have a motion? A motion to approve. Take a move. Thank you. Mr. Stembridge. Yeah. Ms. Bedaverazzo. Yes. Yes. Mr. Schupper. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Benado. Yes. The college. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Thank you kindly. Thank you. Thank you. Next, the final board, final all that you take. Take the BOA. One, three, six, five, four, six, seven. With the address of 100th state road. With the applicant and the representative. Sorry. Before you start, the chair will recuse herself and Ms. Bedaverazzo. This stuff. Thank you. Madam Chair, just in the comment, Tony Jo Hanley is looking to get bump data to a panel. The best case. Thank you. Thank you, Madam Chair. I apologize for the technical difficulty. Thank you for elevating me. Attorney Jo Hanley, McKermick, Baltimore, Miller, 28th state street and Boston. I'm sorry, Bob, who just introduced himself, who is the proponent, owner, developer on this case. May I offer some background on this request, Madam Chair? Yes, but please keep in brief. Of course. So we have submitted correspondence to you. The long and short of this is a mixed use development, a brand new five-story building and rectangular shaped doorchester that was approved by this board. It's hearing on January 10th earlier this year. There was a decision that was issued by the board, a written decision in March. And that is attached as a exhibit A and has some highlighted sections to get to the point here. So the basis of the approval of the zoning board was to be able to utilize an existing curb cut off all state road as part of the site plan and the zoning that was approved. And you'll see that highlighted in pages three and four of the zoning decision. The project also will seal a curb cut on the narrow and somewhat kind of challenge willow court. And so since the approval, we had a proviso for BPDA to sign review. Exhibit B has the recommendation of the BPDA, which is pretty general. It doesn't speak to the curb cut or anything. The decision has the generic BPDA design review approval. We have since worked with the urban design staff at the BPDA, who was indicated in an unwillingness to approve the access on the curb cut from all state road and sent an email, which you'll see in Exhibit C on June 8th directing us to return to the ZBA for interpretation. So we're sort of a little bit at an impasse here. I would say that it is fairly clear if you look at the decision itself, you know, just call out page four project will also utilize the existing curb cut on all state road for garage and vehicle parking access while closing the existing curb cut along the narrower and less traffic willow court. This curb cut removal will improve pedestrian experience and connectivity to the rest of the block by removing an unsafe and dangerous condition while also with upgrading and improving the sidewalk treatment along willow court. I will say it's part of the governing decision, but it's also was also a critical part of the community outreach process with McCormick Civic and the Abodder. So we are merely asking this forward to enforce the language of its decision and allow us to proceed with this development has approved in writing. Thank you, Mr. Haley. Mr. Collins, have you had an opportunity to review the request in the plan? Yeah, yeah, just to clarify Mr. Thirdhand, we so the curb cut on all state road is existing, right? Correct. Yeah, and Mr. Collins, that you look at the plans that also provides direct access to the parking garage for the development, which has 10 parking spaces, so it's an existing curb cut. Yeah, both of them are right now. It's a distressed land with an existing curb cut into, you know, property, Adam, maybe you can provide a little more color here. And say, it's a dilapidated two family with the curb cut on all state road and on real court. So there's already two cars. If it's a two family, there's already at least two cars coming in out of that curb cut so you're adding roughly eight cars going to be coming in out of there. Yeah, yeah. And that was again part of the detailed plans approved by the board, but also in the decision itself. Also mentioned because it's rectangular in shape, if we were to go back against the narrative and the decision and utilize the willow core curb cut and not seal it as was preferred, that would create additional zoning issues. It would force us to go back for likely for variants for design and maneuverability because of the lack of circulation, space, by virtue of the shape of the site. And again, if you know this particular neighborhood right and back section of the neighborhood, right and back of South Bay, willow core is narrow, tight knit. There are no vehicles that come in and out of that curb cut today and that was something that was critical and that's why it was included in the board's decision. All right, Katie. Ms. Buraz, I'm good. Thank you. Are there any further questions from the board? Here and then can I hear a motion? I'm motion to approve. Can I give a second? Okay, second. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Schephardt? Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Mr. Pinnato? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. And I vote yes. The motion carries. Thank you, Madam Chair. I'm Mr. Boyle. Thank you. Next on the agenda of the 930 to 930, we have a case being away. We have to hold the chair. That's the reference to case B.O.A. 1432589. The address of 333336 on street. Or we move on. I'll ask the chair what to speak to. Yes. At this time, the board will hear a call of the chair. The board will receive an appeal for interpretation on zoning refusal. Letter issued on this case that Mr. Stembridge just read in the record. A hearing was held on June 6, 2023, where the board heard the applicant's arguments. The purpose of the call of the chair is for the board to make its final decision on the appeal. Has everyone had a chance to review materials that you received? And are there any questions from the board? No questions from me. No questions. Okay. Hearing no questions. Well, sorry. The heavier should be the motion forward from you. Yes. They have a motion. Sure. I agree with the appellance position that ISD incorrectly cited the front yard setback violation. And therefore, ISD's on a refusal. The second point to put forward the motion, the ISD's zoning refusal citing Article 55, Section 41.1. Conform reading with existing building alignment should be annulled in the ISD issues. The building permit provided that the application meets all other building codes and zoning code requirements. May I have a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Betapurasa. Yes. Mr. Shepard. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Mr. Panado. Yes. Mr. Palenz. Yes. They are also motion carries. Thank you. From now on, we will be reviewing scheduled for 9.30 a.m., but we have a new way. Sorry. Do you want to check for any deferrals or? Who draws? Thank you, Madam Chair. I would like to ask you a question. As for those questions, we have been asked questions and we will be asked questions and we will be asked questions. Yes. I have a question. I have a question. I have a question. At this time, the three entries are the 9.30 time print. Are there any requests for withdrawal of the pearls or cases from the time print? Yes. Please, Mr. Stembridge, 5 SWIFT Terrace. Yes. But when we have... Please. Please. Uh. Please. Uh. Page 25. Okay. Thank you. That is the reference to the K-B-O-A-143-5105. The added three five swift terrors is the applicant and or the applicant and what they represent. Thank you. Good morning, Madam Chair. I'm Chair and members of the board, Mark LeCas, LeCas, LaSlo, 75 Arlington Street and Boston Attorney for the applicant. This project has undergone some significant changes as a result of the community review process and revised plans were submitted to ISD for review and an updated refusal letter but it is my understanding that that has not yet occurred. So we are requesting a deferral to enable ISD to complete the review of the revised plans. Okay. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Here on the item, we have a motion. Madam Chair, if deferral date to advertise that provide notice in the December 12th. Mr. LeCas? That sounds reasonable. Thank you. With that, we have a motion. Madam Chair, we have a motion to make a motion to defer to December 12th, 2023. Thank you. I think it was September. September? Okay. December. And motion to defer to September, 2022. So, Cas will not be happy about December. This is the first time. This is the first time. Yeah, that's correct. It's better browser. Yes. Mr. Shepherd. Yes. The Valencia. Yes. Mr. Conato. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Chair, also, yes. Motion carries. You do so much. Do you that? If there are no more deferrals or requests from this timeframe, then we will go to case BOA 147-8134, the address of 361. Zoom is open time. aquellosير MarySTC Latinos. And thatJOE Bergo. Alfred Cusino, are you back? Yes, almost. Этот Isabella. Believe that. Buck, we were leaved. But we all know that. Friendship percent of everyoneak. which I will take you through the beginning of, but first I'd like to introduce you to the development team I introduced to you to myself. Jake Optin is with us from Optin Partners. He is the developer of the site under a 99 year land lease. Also with me has been Thomas from Aero Street Architects. As the secretary indicated, this is an article lady large project that was approved by the VPBA board earlier this year. And we had spent a long time coming to this board. This particular site was before the board in 2019 for what was then proposed to be the new Roxbury Pratt High School to subsequently withdraw. And now we are here with much needed housing at the foot of a train station. Next slide, please. So just to bring you Birds Eye into the site a little further out here, 361 Belt right at you'll see in the Aero indicator. Again, right next to the MBTA's Belt View Hill, I'm sorry, Belt View, can you get a rail station? It is in the Roslanddale neighborhood towards the intersection of West Roxbury. Next slide, just to bring you a little closer up to the site itself, you'll see in the upper left see only name Rotary and as you head up belt view, you go into the beginning of Roslanddale. It's a little over in Aker, the property, which you'll see there, 43,014 square feet surrounded which is important for the zoning, surrounded on all sides by public ways of railroad infrastructure. So no direct butters that are attached that aren't separated by a public way or infrastructure. To the right, you'll see the existing conditions for it is a nonconforming industrial structure in use in residential and a food shopping zone has been utilized as a clay, out of body, out of mechanic and sales as well as NTV tire warehouse. And you'll see the change in grade as you go up the hill. To the lower right is a view down to Anaheim 1-1-F, which is one of the public ways that the UTSA some leads directly to the commuting rail station. Next slide, please. So just to give you an overview of the project, which you'll see in the presentation, again, the site, Little Lover and Acre floor area, which is being proposed is approximately 125, 636 per square feet on a very large site, FAR combined is 2.9. And we were proposing 124 new residential units of rental housing with 21 IDP units, which amounts to 17% in excess of the city's requirements at a location that has some of the lowest availability before the housing in the city. We at the mix of units, mostly 2's and 1 bedrooms with a small portion of studios. We have 170 bike parking spaces and 83 residential parking spaces. Quickly to, this is a transformative development that is investing over $8 million in surrounding infrastructure, widening sidewalks, pedestrian access, and new open space in place of what was a surface lot at the top of the West Rocksbury Parkway, in addition to the affordable housing in excess of the city's requirements. Next slide, please. So this slide in support of the zoning and a unique property site with conditions that result in a hardship, there are two contiguous parcels together here and in two zoning districts, the overwhelming majority and the new shopping, which allows our multi-family residential and a small section in the 2F 5000, which used to be a parking lot, no vestige of residential uses in the site itself. Rectangular in shape and there's a change in grade that goes up LV Hill from about 18 to 23 feet and again, a putt of on all sides by public ways and railroad infrastructure and further limited by, which you'll see in the next slide, a no-build area of approximately 1,473 square feet and we are 250 feet from the subway station. Next slide shows you Madam Chair, how the zoning breaks down into two different zones. Again, 83% of the land areas in the neighborhood shopping we require relief with the FAR, which is approximately three. We require relief of height, which allows for 35 feet, three stories. That height is mitigated by the surrounding public streets but also the setbacks and the sections in the vast open space as well as utilizing the upgrade to buried structure into the hill including underground parking. We also need relief for the setbacks, which again is mitigated by its surrounding public ways. If you go to the next slide, the small percentage of the site you'll see in the orange hash or purple hash in the upper left that shows you the small portion of land, which was conveyed from DCR many, many years ago and has a restriction that it be maintained for open space or parking. We think open space is more desirable. The project puts the underground parking space underneath that. So we do need relief in the 2L 5000 for the setbacks but there is no structure. It's all subterranean. So it is mitigated by the fact that it's all underground and up top we are investing and creating a vast public open space, green space, which was part of the final thing I will note, we are in the Green Belt Protection or Relay District and so we spent an extensive amount of processing with the PDA, Mastod, I'm sorry, DCR and the like and this is a project that also went through the BCDC review for extensive landscape and design input. And so with that I'd like to hand it off to Ben Thomas to take you through the design presentation. Ben? You there, Ben? I'm here, thanks Joe. You can go just to refuse a letter for Ricker's provided. Walk us through it quickly, please, thank you. Sure. So we have three main drivers for this project. The first was the integration of green infrastructure, really as a tool for scaling the overall massing and enhancing the street presence along Belgrade and acting as a bump between access points on site. As Joe mentioned, the site is bordered on three sides by public streets and currently houses a pretty and eye-scattered link wall with little to no tree canopy. So for also our Belgrade and Anilon, it was pretty important to use the Boston Police Street guidelines to enhance the neighborhood really beyond our footprint. The white and sidewalk, new furnishing zone, conjunction with the renovated intersection really helps to divide the public way from the commuter station down Belgrade into the West Ratchray Parkway. It also provides us an opportunity to simply locate community assets like the Blue Black Station, which is labeled as number eight on the drawing you see. Excuse me, next slide please. At the west of the site, as Joe mentioned, we are proposing a robust green space of over 7,000 square feet. This area is fully in the two of 5,000s are in district and provides approximately 50 feet from the edge of pavement to the building footprint where they're set back. The planting plan includes upgrades to the existing greenway, which we feel will really help the overall beautification of the parkway in the intersection. Additionally, the green design removes great existing argument. There's currently access from Belgrade near the busy intersection. Next slide please. You can see in this section how bringing the party will look great, really allows us to create such a large mode of space, which is really in common with the urban environment. This also speaks to the second driver for the project, which is really negotiating the significant space world for cost of site. Next slide please. So here at this celebration, Belgrade, really how it's a few strategies we use to scale the project on the slipping grade. One was setting the journey of the building where I sing to the rear of the site, which is beyond the minimum front here at setback, and provides an opportunity for us to have a dynamic street wall, which is more than right with the street confirmedly approach along Belgrade. We've also set the top floor back at all faces, significantly on the east side on the site where we transition into the neighborhood, and that's located on the right side of this image here. Lastly, we've used the slipping grade as an opportunity to provide additional commercial space. The lower right and the side of the image, you can see that with the slip falling away, we're able to provide a corner anchor for the community. This is at the lower end of the site, and it really emphasizes the public nature of the renovated intersection that we described earlier. Next slide please. And this is where it brings us to the third driver for the project, which is activated in the street edge. So in an outer end of the slope through the program, place where you're matching setbacks and access, we're really able to provide a very set of experiences along the length of Belgrade. This slide shows the depth of the street wall, the interface really allows us to access to the lower left side or a lobby entry, give green buffers and setbacks at elevated spaces like we're considering our front porch. And continue this data of one to one and a half-story expression along the street down to the commercial corner. Next slide please. So at this view here, as we're across Belgrade, it shows other strategies, maybe experienced across the renovated intersection, the low-grade expression, that's the public ground, while masking setbacks breaks the roof lines and scales the overall expression of the project. Next slide. And this view here, you can see how the commercial corner is out of the single story expression of brick. The left is the expanded sidewalk and furniture zone against Belgrade. You can see the blue bike station is safely local and against pedestrian traffic. Next slide. Here we are to the west end of the site, but we can see the new green space against the parkway. And how the intersection now has relief from the parking lot and access that is currently there. This view also shows how the short-wind expression of the masking is brought forward to Belgrade and provides scale against that 50 foot setback toward the west-frox rate parkway, or breaking up the overall rate of the mask. Next slide. And so hopefully for us, we feel this project, as one of an ongoing, as Joe mentioned, ongoing collaboration with city, subcommittees and neighborhood, and we really feel we've been able to design a product that's dynamic scale and directly contributes to the community beyond the footprint. So that takes our time and I just wanna thank you for the opportunity to present this and I hope you have any questions, Matt. Thank you. Any questions from the board? No question, I got a question. What if Mr. Miko's parking education is available? It makes a problem. Not then. I'm sorry. Do you have a question for Assistant Bridger or comment? I don't comment. Okay. Mr. Miko suggested that with this project, they add two different parking spaces for parking space and install six or less charging stations. And that's a problem. Okay. I know you have a question Mr. Rosadine. Well, it's been asked, I was gonna ask, to develop a RDI architect. If they see that as feasible, that would mean replacing two spaces for a handicap and then to install six charging stations is that your building is all electric. So it seems like it would add to the value of the project. Yeah, Attorney Joe Hanley, this is, you know, Article Lady large project will still have on going review. We're happy to accommodate that and continue to work through the Article Lady process for certification. You know, through the transportation planners as well. Well, I can also just point out that we already are committed to have all of the underground parking spaces are being able to be expandable to electric and 25% of our spaces are committed already to that. And we already have, we believe adequate handicap parking in our garage, but perhaps then you could walk them through the garage plan to inform that. I mean, I don't think we have the project in front of us. I think we've kind of have reviewed already the plans. But I have a question in terms of the commercial space. I believe there's a commercial space available down this tree and I keep seeing signs along there. And I'm wondering, is there a market for the commercial space that you're proposing? Yes, we have a letter of intent sign that is still has to go under contracts. We're not ready to reveal who it is. But we have one group that is a local group that is looking to expand and upgrade their facilities to this location. Okay, great. Thanks, no further question. Through this year, if this project was to be approved, do we have a tie-and-tip on the construction and also have you selected the general contract for the project? We have not selected a general contractor. We would anticipate this going into full design with construction to begin about a year. We've, the developer's been working with the JMA on free-con services, but once we get to the point, should we have the opportunity to be approved here? We'll be expanding the search. So I just, I see the project managers hand this raise from UPDA if you want to chime in briefly. Yes, thank you Madam Chair. Good morning, and good morning members of the board. My name is Quinn Valsich. I'm a senior project manager at the BPA. This project was filed with the BPA in September 9th, 2022, and successfully completed the article-a-d review process. This process included a BPA sponsor public meeting and an IIG meeting and a joint IIG public meeting. The project was approved by the board on March 16th, 2023, and received mixed support from neighbors, IIG members, and a letter of support from Mr. Counselor, a Royal during the commentary. Thank you. Madam Chair, I have a question. Yes. I appreciate to see the 21 of the units at 4.0. A 30-70% of the total number of units. Now, what I see is that most of the income, area of medium income, is from 70% to 100%. So my question is, is this feasible for you to ensure that at least one or two more of the units are affordable for AMIs below 50%. Yeah, thank you, Mr. Valencia. Actually, we do have the ranges 50% of AMI. We have, let me see, one. I see one. Yeah, we have one at 50, we have one at 60. One of the things we also have admittedly, we have some two bedrooms that are at 100%, which we think is really important for us housing. This is something that we worked really carefully with the IDP mayor's office of housing. We are pleased that we're able to provide 21 units. As you may or may not know, West Roxbury has some of the lowest amount of available inventory of affordable housing in anywhere in the city. We're in Roslanddale, but of course, you cannot restrict people by neighborhood. So the opportunities here, I think are pretty special. We also have a good amount of the 21, six are two bedrooms, which range, if you look at the income restricted units from about 950 square feet to upwards to 1200 square feet, which we would suggest helps to address the need for family-sized housing for a fair affordability, especially in the workforce. I'd like to also just mention that we've also committed to the new environmental standards set by the city with pass paths, we're actually exceeding those. So this is pass of house, with almost zero carbon footprint, and sustainable best practices being implemented. And so we are really kind of enthusiastically engaging in the mayor's mission to provide highest standard of affordable housing qualitatively to. Thank you. And finally, the question, since this is a transit oriented development project, do you plan to give residents what have used the IDP residents, tea passes for them to take all the bosses for the community rail? Yes, we've committed to giving tea passes to all of our residents for the first year that they are located here to make sure that they understand and use and try the vast mass transportation. We've also committed to adding bus complications. There's four bus lines that converge at the site, and we are working with DOT, the Boston traffic, and the MBTA on the final locations of those. But we're also, as along excited at, expanding and working on some of the lighting and access issues to improve that for all the residents. Yeah, Mr. Valencia, just to know, we're not just relying on the fact that we are 250 feet from a train station. As you probably saw in some of the comment letters, this concerns about inadequate sidewalks and passage today. So this development is making, I think I indicated almost over $8 million in infrastructure improvements, contributions, the MBTA access improvements, complete streets, sidewalks, improvements to the West Roxbury Parkway and then intermoat transportation, all as part of the artically processed. So we're really proud that it checks all the bosses for the city's policy with respect to modern transit oriented housing. This is all rental, correct? Correct. So 130, 120, four. 124 are being rented. I know 21 are IDP. Yeah, it's gonna be the average rent. For the market rate? Yes. Yeah, I mean, it obviously would be determined by where the market is right now, but do you have a range that you can provide? I think that this is gonna be similar to the average rents that are in Fort Hills area, but I think the range is between 1700 and 3,200 depending on the size and orientation and location of the units for the market rate units. It just took with that perspective, two bedroom unit at 70% of AMI would be around less than $1,700 a month. And of course, we have six of those two bedrooms. So, yeah, that's a major opportunity, especially for working families. All right, I'm gonna intervene and ask that we open it up to public testimony. I'm wearing Madam Chair and members of the board. This is Diana Braunschrank from the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. At this time, we defer judgment to the board. This project has completed the community process via the BPDA with the most recent community meeting in February. There was a neighborhood association in the area focused on this project during the first proposal that I had not been in contact with. They received multiple letters of opposition and a few in support. Thank you. Good morning Madam Chair, members of the board. You can see the 10th and 5th Councilor Murphy's Office. The Alpine Complier that the community process with support from direct voters and neighbors. The Councilor sent over a letter of support, but she would also like to go on record in support. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, I'm also looking to see Councilor Lodge Michael Flarey. The Councilor did not support his school at this location because he had recognized the value of a transit oriented project. There are, there, doesn't matter, there are neighbors who wish that this project will all less dense. The understands that concern, he would urge the development team to continue working with the neighbor's self-description, address any of the concerns that arise. He does, he would like to go on record in support to the fact that this is a transit oriented housing that is much easier than the city. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning, members of the board. This is Councilor Carter Royal. Hopefully you can hear me clearly on this. It's not often that I personally before you in support of a project, but that is the importance to me of this project. This is a distressed industrial site that has been in distress industrial site for much of my life here in the city, not growing up on the southwest side here in I part near Rosendale. This project is entirely appropriate to the size and scale of that space, but also brings much needed affordable housing, does deal with many of the pedestrian issues there. It was noted earlier in a question that there's a commercial space or commercial space is really, Arm Belgrade app that could use the density that this is bringing. This is a perfectly transit oriented space in terms of being 250 feet away from a train station, but also having several buses run through there. And I would also just know that it is much appreciated that they are taking that space that abuts the West Roxbury Parkway and making that green space, which is really in line with the rest of what it looks like on West Roxbury Parkway, where most of what the West Roxbury Parkway is green space, but also enhances natural green space for it for the community in a way that can be enjoyed by all. So this project has my full support. I supported the high school that did not move forward, but I think that where we are now with this project, this is worthy of our full support. And that's why I'm here personally to make sure it's to share that with you. That's how my office feels about that and how my office is moved in this project. So thank you for hearing me out. I appreciate it. Thank you for your time and for your service. Thank you. Are there any stands? Is it Madame Ambassador? Madame Ambassador? Are there any other East Tans? We cannot hear you, Jessica. Hi there, can anybody hear me? Who is this? Hello, this is Jenny Gas from the Bellevue Mail Improvement Association in West Roxbury. Okay, are you here to speak in support or opposition? In opposition. Okay, please be brief. Okay. First of all, I just wanted to note that the train station that is adjacent to this project is not called the Bellevue Station. It's the Highlands Station. Let's just a note. The ZBA published a list of well violations that this project presents. The FAR, the FAR of 1.0, which is recommended by zoning, is set 2.9, which is, which is, can you give us your specific reasons for opposition? We know the zoning specific issues. So you don't want me to talk about the height of the building? Well, I just want to make sure we understand what your opposition is. So I just want to be, okay. Thank you. Hi. Please continue. Okay. The opposition of our neighborhood association has to do with the height of the building. And, you know, it's a 35 foot zoning. It's, the zoning rules are not recommendations. They're, they're actual rules. And this building will be 63 to 70 feet high. So we're against the building for this particular reason. Thank you. Jessica, are you back online? Can you hear me? Yes. Oh, sorry about that. Lynette, do you have the next? I want to go get the evidence. You can briefly tell us if you're in support of opposition. Sorry. I can support this project. Okay. And what's your name and address? My name is Evan Zimmer. I live at 396 Beach Street. You know, one. Thank you. Okay. And a little bit of that. Hi. I'm Matt Lawler, resident of Boston, 15 Vasto Terrace. Here in some work of the project. Both of my own behalf is a member of the I.O.G. And also as a representative of rock-a-bomb. I was a beyond the idea of the building. I'm going to be a member of the I.O.G. And also as a representative of rock-a-bomb. I was a male. We submitted a letter of support with respect to the art of the I.O.G. And also as a representative of rock-a-bomb. We submitted a letter of support with respect to the art of the I.O.G. And we're doing so to continue our support here before the CBA. We think this is the right project in this location. It's long past time when this site should be redeveloped. I think this project is a great example of the kind of project that should be done around the city and around our neighborhood. And we think it's actually been improved quite a bit through the public process again very much in support of the board to prove the project today. Thank you. Thank you. A couple of hands are raising up as we're going to follow. Hi, my name is Paula or Lunder. I was a member of the I.O.G. And I'm also a directed butter at 345 Bell Great App New. I am in opposition of this project due to its massive size and the vast overreaching variances that are being requested. I think that it's completely out of character in the neighborhood. And I think that there has been no legal basis to show that the variances should be granted. And I would ask you to oppose what we're trying to do to community. Thank you. No additional raised hands. Not in chair. No. Okay. Any additional questions from the board? Hearing none. May I have a motion? I'll make a motion to approve with the BPGA. I'm in mind. Thank you. Thank you. What is that? I'm in. Sorry. I guess he wants it. Okay. You have a second. Seconds. Okay. Mr. Stambridge. Yes. Mr. Berraza. Yes. Mr. Shepherd. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Canado. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. The chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, everybody. Next on the agenda, we have Kate Bio. One for eight. One for zero eight. The address of 1320 Rochester Avenue. Also has an R. Colleen project. Is the applicant and or the representative. Yes, Mr. Stambridge. Thank you. Okay. I'm just going to remind again we have a lot of cases today. Please be brief. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Madam Chair, members of the board. I certainly will. My name is George Moranse. I'm an attorney with the business address of 350 West Broadway in South Boston. I represent Robert R. Monde Jr. The owner of the land and Doug George, who will be developing the project with Mr. R. Monde, who are both present today. We are also joined by Mark Sullivan and author to the project architects. Andrew Chimero's our community outreach coordinator. Yeah. Yeah. Thank you. Thank you. Sorry, Mr. Nazi. That's okay. Thank you. This project, 1320, George Esther Avenue was conceived and designed in response to the City of Austin's contact living pilot initiative, which encourages the development of new work in living spaces where residents enjoy smaller and more affordable but well designed, well-informed areas with ample storage and natural light share common areas and nearby transportation options. The project additionally responds to and is fully compliant with the City's comprehensive strategic planning initiative for this area of George Esther, known as Plan Globary's Corner, which was commenced in late 2017 and which established specific new development guidelines to facilitate predictable and appropriate development and community benefits. The proposed project consists of a new six-story, 70-unit residential building at 1320, George Esther Avenue. The combined lot comprises four parcels and is currently occupied by a small mixed-use building on the lot addressed as 1320, George Esther Avenue with the vast majority of the site being used currently for surface parking. The total lot size is approximately 19,021 square feet and is located within an NS neighborhood shopping zoning sub-discord under Article 65. The site is further located within zone one under Plan, George Esther Globary's Corner. The proposed are 70 studio apartment units, which range from 377 to 550 square feet and therefore comply with the compact living pilot's unit interior guidelines in regard to square footage, function, storage, and daylight exposure. The building in the units will also have approximately a 3,300, excuse me, 3633 square feet of shared office and lounge space, a ground floor fitness center, and a common roof lounge and roof deck. The proposed project includes only six surface parking spaces, which is in compliance with the maximum parking per unit guidelines and will also fully comply with the compact living pilot's transportation demand management requirements so it will produce parking, unbundle parking, on-site car share parking, and delivery supportive amenities. The project also includes sponsorship of a blue bike station on George Esther Avenue in far in the building. Additionally, the site plan facilitates the long-term planning and goal of connecting the project's open space to a future neighborhood network of mid-block linear open spaces while replacing the existing surface parking along George Esther Avenue with active ground floor uses and new upper-story apartments. With respect to the zoning, the required relief is actually not extensive. The total of four barriences are required for one excessive floor area ratio, and if they are one is allowed in approximately 2.41 is being proposed. Two, an excessive building height of approximately 70 feet with 40 feet being allowed, three, an insufficient rear yard setback of 15 feet, which is five feet less than the 20 feet required by the road in fourth violation insufficient off-street parking. This site is approximately 10 to 12 minutes walking distance from the field's corner rapid transit station on the MBTA's red line. Again, all dimensional characteristics of the building, including building height, project density, and setbacks, as well as all off-street parking, minimum and maximum requirements are fully compliant with the strict requirement to plan school of its corner and the compact living pilot. Finally, following plan, school of its corner's inclusionary housing recommendations, the project will provide a total of 11 IDP units for total IDP percentage of 15%. All 11 of these units will be made affordable households are not more than 70% of area MIMI, and will be additionally affordable, but it's the lower maximum rental rate for compact IDP studio units under the compact living pilot, which is currently set at $1,130 per month. With that manager, I'll pause and take any questions that members may have. Thank you, Mr. Rancy. Are there questions from the board? Yes, through the chair. Yes. My question for the development team is if this project was to be improved, what's the title of the construction, and also my next question would be, have you all selected a general contract with this project? Yes, Mr. Shepherd. The timetable for the project would probably be beginning construction January of the new year, January 2024, with completion of sometime in July 2025. My clients have not yet selected a general contract with this project, has been in progress for quite a long time, looking forward to getting it approved today. Taking up that issue with the next stage provided this will be approved by the board. Thank you. Manager, I only have a question for the BPDA plan reviewer in regards to comments on the pen house. There's two of them, and you know, it's a six story, but which having two, it looks like it's seven stories. I think it's a great question. I think it's a great question. I think it's a great question. I think it's a great question. I think it's a great question. I think it's a great question. I think it's a great question. I think it's a great question. I think it's a great question. I think it's a great question. I think it's a great question. I think it's a great question. I think it's a great question. We have a question for you. It's just to continue with the BPDA review process, just to understand that it wouldn't be setting a precedent of future pen house units. No. Understood. Thank you. Thank you. So, first question, similar to the previous project, this project is providing 50% A to B units, and I just want to ask the proponent, if there is any reason why your project cannot provide more units like a higher IPP% or lower AMIs, since most of the projects that we are seeing recently are offering more than 15, 18, 20% IPP units. So, it's possible for the project to reconsider anything we would have thought for the units from the IDP units that we're providing. The percentage that was settled upon Mr. Valencia is higher than is currently required. We are required to comply with IDP policy. We are exceeding IDP policy. Also, as a compact living pilot, a lot of the building, a lot of the built constructed space is actually common in many spaces, requirement of CLP. So, there are there for fewer units for sale at market rate than would normally be an non-CLP project. Also, as part of the entire community benefits project, process through the BPAs article 80 project. Again, aside from settling on a higher than required, IDP percentage of 13%, there are also additional amenities that don't show up, they do show up in the BPAs board memo, things that typically aren't required, for example, of a small project, such as sponsorship of a blue bike station, which there will be one in front. And the other thing, as I said, is that is compact living pilot, IDP units, these are actually lower maximum rental rates than, let's say, standard IDP units. So, we're looking at IDP unit rents here at a maximum, currently, $1,120, which I think is a really good rafir. So, we'll be able to live in this really thriving section of the fields corner neighborhood doorchester. And even the market rate units are going to be, as of what the market is here in this type of building, probably only a few hundred dollars more than that. So, they would almost be in alignment with non-IDP rental rates. I'm sorry, if a non-compaq living rental rates for the IDP units. So, we're looking at IDP units at about 1120, as I say, and market rate units of somewhere in the area of 1500 to 1700, 50 per month. Thank you. Any other questions about zoning relief from the board? Okay, hearing none, let's go to public testimony. Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, calling in with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. This time, the mayor's office looked to defer to the judgment of this board. As you heard from C. Harvey, who was the project manager, this project went through an extensive BPA process during 2021 and 2022, multiple public meetings. Speaking with the field's corner civic association, we understand that they will not be taking position on this, but also be deferring to the board as well. But there was conversations throughout about affordability with the units and the size of the project. We have no letters of opposition that I'm aware of presently. I want that with defer to the board. Thank you. Thank you for mourning that on chair. I'm members of the board, Dr. McHack, Quintet City Councilor Frank Baker's office who would like to more recognize the Gordon Project today. Any other city councillors, if not, I'll go to the public testimony. Karen, are you looking to get testimony here? Yes, I am. Okay, can you give your name and address for the record and briefly tell us that you're in support of opposition? Opposition, my name is Karen O'Neill. I'm a provider of the property of 1310, 1318. I'm a federal legislature avenue. I finally zone this property since 1963. We're very active in the community and I'd like to speak in regards to the appeal of the project at 1320 legislature. To start, I'd like to state a multiple business but not once come to affect mine negatively. I've been to the buddies meeting. I've also met privately. I was promised a plan to be revised and my concerns would be addressed. I reached out to Mr. George himself a few times. I'd like to state that for nothing better. Neighborhood concerns in mine are the setbacks. My personal concern as the main of utter is the size of the setback. The parking in 70 units were only six spots in that congested area where the parking is unbearable now. A Friday night group of eats will need more than that amount of spaces. The door just to houses using that lot of mouth of parking, not sure exactly how many cars might guess would be 20. I don't know where they're going to go now. The height of the project, 70 feet, would tower over the existing buildings in that area, but optimizing the three decades of historical look of the buildings there now. The proposed electrical insurg needs can they be met. The roof deck, the lounge, the mechanicals, all of the bike storage, all of that should probably be on the opposite side of the building since it's commercial and everything closes at three o'clock out of it. It wouldn't affect anybody else in the area. There are 10 residential properties on my property. As far as I know, the blow of the bike. Please wrap up. Please wrap up. Are there any other race stands? Okay, I have no additional race stands. Thank you. Okay, would you like to address any of that? Yes, Madam Chair, George Marancy. I've just point out that in terms of setbacks except for a five foot rear setback violation were in compliance with all setback requirements. This building, previous speaker, testified as to the left since the inception of the project. Aside from things like a reduction and building and reduction in number of units, but specifically as an accommodation to that, to the going on, the length of 1310. Side decks and balconies were removed. They had been projecting balconies. The windows were realigned. Some windows were eliminated. The side setback has been increased. Again, all concerns of how the mixed juice building into the left could be impacted. So every effort was made. And there is no side yards setback violation. And in terms of the amenities based the rooftop, amenity space in particular, amenity space is a requirement under the compact living pilot. And it is really practically necessary for small units. Such as this to have an area where residents can actually have some usable open space. Any final questions from the board? Would that may have a motion? Adam, Chair, I would prefer a motion to approve with 11 IDP units and other committee benefits as outlined on the VPD Board of Memorandum. May I have a second? Second. Mr. Stonebridge. Yes. Miss Beto-Brazzo. Yes. Mr. Shepern. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Miss Panato. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Thanks. Next we have case AOA 142-8646. The address of 42 East Street is the applicant and or the representative. Yes. And you identify yourself and project this into the record? Hi, my name is Bonnie Tan with JCBT Architect. Adresses five in five Washington Street Quincy Mass. I represent the client owner of the property and owner of the property Moitran. We are proposing a three unit, three story townhouse at the property of 42 East Street, sitting on a 7,120 square feet lot seeking for FAR variance, number of story, dimension of setback. We have to provide more than what is required for parking spaces. We have each unit where have it in door to car garage on the ground level with three additional visitor parking space in the rear. First floor will be for open living space. Second, the top floor is two to three bedroom unit. The first unit one and unit two are about 1,200 square feet each unit with a 2,000 square feet living space on a third unit. These are for rental. The owner is looking to keep unit number three to her, south and her family with the rental of unit one and two. Each unit will have its own garage, and parking. The outdoor is for, they have each, and the wear will be for outdoor space to be used for all the units here. I will have the owner here with me, but the offer from what I heard is for market rental. Please move to a setback. How much setbacks do you have in the front and inside? The front yard setback I have is, is a foot. So the last yard I have is the worst cases in the rear, which is 3.5. The rear we have close to 60 feet in the rear. The rest we have planning for because of the two-way part, our driveway. And what's required in the front yard? The right yard we require is 15. We're going to push the car into the rear. Okay, are there questions from the board? Yeah, I'm trying to understand the garage, it says proposed front elevation, but I see that there's, right there, is that on the street those garages? Because I thought that the garage, that there's parking everywhere. That's on the driveway side. That's really the right side. Is it those garage doors facing where there is an aisle access to the three parking space? The bottom one is the one facing the three parking space. The garage door is facing the rear yard. I mean, that's how the lights yard. So just to clarify, this is a side view, not the front. That's a side view, the garage, yes. But there's no entrance on the front. There's no entrance, correct? Okay. Right, so I think what you're calling the front is really just a side yard. Yes. Yes. Okay, so it's just mislead-bled. Yeah. Okay. Why so many visitor spaces? There's a lot of parking. We don't typically see so much parking. And you considered some open space as opposed to visitor parking. We can convert it back to open space of this necessary. The owner felt that she's giving each one a visitor parking space. So just in case each one of them has a gas over the same time. So there's parking, so no need to park on the street to take up any neighbor's parking. On the street. Because we went to a couple of neighborhood meetings and all from complaint about parking on the street. So that's why we provide extra visitor parking space. So no one on this property will park on the street. I'm sorry. Can I just ask how many people put your proposing and then I'll turn it to you. I'm sorry. Can you repeat them? How many curb can serve you proposing for the parking? Just one. Just one. Just one for the driveway. Would that be the existing curb? No. Um. Yeah. That is the existing curb. So if a question of your remote, the parking for visitors, you will be able to increase the same time in the front because at this moment you only have one foot. Right? So if you change the parking in the back, can you pull back your wheel then to increase the same time in the front of the site? Well, because the lot is wider in the front and narrow in the rear. If we push it on the last unit, we have very tight turning radius. But still, the visitor parking will have the same problem. The visitor parking space doesn't need us as necessary. But we, if we prefer to push it a little bit further back to eliminate the visitor parking space, we can certainly do that. And have people park on the driveway. So you're almost repopying the building to the right. It's existing to your property where it's a long building and the front is through the aisle. Yes. In that case, all the parking is outside of the unit. Tell that except that they set back looks a lot different. You're except backwards a lot deeper. Much bigger. Yes. Yeah. Um. I do like, um, Miss Avalanche's comment that, uh, you know, if you set back just enough, so it's working with the adjacent property, kind of modal alignment. And you remove the, the additional three proposed parking, you then allow for open space to the residents. Sure. We can do that. We can eliminate the three parking spaces outside and giving a 15 feet front yard set back. Mr. Hampton, do you want to just win on that? Yes. Thank you, Madam Chair. Members of the board. We pretty much agree with all the discussion that's taking place between the board members. Typically on the street, you know, you'd probably want a triple decker. I mean, that's what most of them are. Uh, but, you know, mimicking the house to the right is fine. We want to increase that front yard set back, even the triple deckers are set back a little bit. And we think that, you know, more open space, uh, you know, nine parking spaces on this site. It's pretty excessive. But I would agree with the comments made by the board, uh, to push this building back so that we have more of a front yard set back. And, uh, if we could increase the usable open space, I'd be, uh, I'd agree with that as well. Thank you. Thank you. Let's open it up to public testimony. Good morning. Madam Chair, members of the board. Nothing was actually going to the mayor's office and the head. So, I'm back on the community process. The office heard from the original last July. Do I have a book? The book is that million happy to put out to meet the house. The biggest association. Most of the people outside the office are standing by. Where is time for that to put? Any other raised hands? I had no raised hands at the moment. Okay. Okay. Hearing the discussion. May I have a motion? Madam Chair, I'd like to put for a motion of approval with, um, to provide three provisels. Um, one, to work with BPD, to increase the front yard setback. Two, to eliminate the three onsite, uh, parking spaces to allow for more open, usable space. And three, to work with BPD, design review, to, uh, pay special attention to the East Street facade, which is really the front, um, of the, of the property to work more with its neighboring, um, residential neighbor in terms of this context. Man, second. Second. Yes. Mr. Shepard. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Panado. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Next. Next we have case. Mo. Thank you. Stuart Shrier representing the Bethel Tabin-Ackle Pentecostal Church. This is regarding 177 Hobbit Street in Dorchester, which is part of the Greater Matapans and only district. It's a 3 F 5000 property. The proposals to change the use from an adult education with offices to an assembly, place of worship, food pantry, and two dwelling units above. So I'll describe what's proposed for this building. First of all, the building was built in 1900 as a two family. It was used by St. Leo Roman Catholic Church as a parish house. Later, it was used by the Haitian Humanities Center for a number of years. The building has been underutilized for some time. The Pentecostal Church purchased the building in 2006. In 2011, they came back with a proposal which was approved by this board for some of the things that we're going to talk about today. So what the proposal is, it's an existing building. The only exterior changes are adding a ramp on the left side of the building for access to the basement and the rear porch is going to be a lodge. So building itself on the exterior will remain on the same footprint as they where it is. The proposal is to change the first wall into a community room. There's going to be a kitchen, a dining room for use by the parish. So you'll see on the right hand side there's a community room on the left hand side, there's a kitchen, a dining room, a living room. Looks somewhat like an apartment. It's going to stay looking like that and it's going to be used by the parish for meetings and meals and whatever they're going to use it for. A pertinent to that, they want to use the basement if we can go back one slide. So actually that's the existing. If you would go to a six team, I think it is, is the proposal? You're at the existing. If you could move a seven, a seven, there we go. So this is the proposal for the basement. What the parish was proposing is a food pantry. It's desperately needed in the neighborhood. Obviously there are people that just aren't in a porch in a position and they need help and this parish chooses to help those people. If you look, the entry will be from the front of the building on a ramp down to the basement. They'll have it set up for tables where people can pick and choose what kind of food they need. So the right rear is going to be a refrigerator room and storage. That room that you see on the right in the rear is going to contain refrigerators and freezes to keep the food. There'll be never more than 10 people in this working and 10 people that could be customers. So it's the outside area of the building is 1,260 square feet. There'll be a little less than that. There'll be about 1,100 square feet of the usable space inside. And they do have room for the mechanicals for upstairs and a bathroom. So this is what is the important part of the proposal. The second floor will be residential for people from the parish that are going to be living in there. Ministry students, they come to visit. This is a four bedroom unit. Again, it's just about 1,200 square feet. The third floor will be used also by the parish for the church administrator. This is a two bedroom unit, it's a small unit, maybe about 750 square feet. These are all existing. So let me tell you why this should be considered by the board. Yet, it's a three F-5,000, but there's no other buildings on this side of the street. This entire area from Esmond Street through to McNail Street along Ovid is owned by the Pentecostal Church. The church has a church building, a parish house, and other buildings located here. They have additional parking. The total campus, if we wouldn't do this as a campus, is 57,640 square feet on Esmond Ovid and McNail. The church building, the administrative building, and the parking areas are all there along with some recreation areas. The church has more than adequate parking because the church is going to be operating in the food pantry. There should not be any problem with parking in the area. The building was sold to the church from the capital, Charitable Bureau of the Archdiocese in 2006. In 2011, they came to this board because the prior listed use of this property was adult education. They wanted to change it to a place of assembly and residential. The board approved the project back in 2011, BZC 30980. I know that's not finding on this board, but we submitted 125 letters of support from the neighborhood, from immediate of others, and people that need to use food pantry. This food pantry is very important in the neighborhood. Let's pause and see if the board has any questions. Are there any questions from the board? I was just questioning the forbedroom unrelated adults. Is that meant to be more like an SRO kind of arrangement? No, it's going to be used by the parish for ministry students. So they won't be tenants, or say, usually for ministry students that are traveling. They might be going from parish to parish. The church will control those in there, and it's going to be utilized by the church. Okay, thank you. Any other questions from the board? Hearing none, can we have public testimony? Good morning, then. I'm Chair of the board. Absolutely. I'm the Mayor's Professor of Public Service. My office is still getting hold of others. We need the work, but the companies in that building, a lot of people in the third way of this project, they're also involved in the neighborhood civic, top of the Harvard Triangle, which will soon be support as well. But that will be the part of this time. Thank you. Morning, Madam Chair. I'm the board. My name is Aime Dome. We are with the Office of City Council of Vinyl, Royal, in regards to 177 Harvard Treats, the B.B.C. Harvard Blue Service will give this report, and with no letters of opposition, we're to our awareness of the Council of Vector Law on Record and Support of this project. Thank you. Thank you. Would that be a motion? Well, say I make a motion to approve. Thank you. Mr. Stambridge. Yes. Mr. Berberaza. Yes. Mr. Schupper. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Pionato. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Chair also votes, yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Next, we have to go to the front. Sure. Since we're past the 11th block, I would like to ask that there are any requests for, would go or depose from the 11th block there? Yes. Mr. Stambridge, I have one. 43-45 Stanton Street. So that would be case B.O.A. 144-3137. What data is it? 43-45 Stanton Street. Would you identify yourself and identify yourself? Yes. Good morning, Madam Chair. Board Mark LeCasse, LeCasse Law 75 Arlington Street, and Boston Attorney for the Project Opponent at 43-45 Stanton Street, which is the former Convent of the St. Matthews Parish Complex, which has been closed for some time. And while my client is not developing any other part of this closed parish campus, including the much larger church building, nevertheless, we've had requests from community groups to continue our meeting with them, regarding this particular proposal as it relates to the larger other component parts of the St. Matthews Parish Complex. And we've agreed to do that and have further meetings with the community. So on that basis, we are requesting a deferral today. Thank you. Any questions from the Board? Madam Chair, this is Bob here. Yes. A potential to the girl data to turn you a cast. What's the September 26th or October 17th? You more aware of your? I think we'd like to go. It's now in 26th and keep the process moving. Okay, we've got it. I have a motion. Motion to approve the model to what this case is to. The number 26. May I have a second? Sixth and I have a new one. This is the Stembridge. Yes? This better browser. Yes? Mr. Shepard. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes? Mr. Panado. Yes? Mr. Collins. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Secretary, you turn 22, Boone Street, please. So that would be case B-O-A-E-148-1099 with the address of the case. You point to Boone Street. Would you write that by yourself? Yes. I'd like to play. Yes. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Madam Chair, members of the Board, Attorney Ryan Spitz with Adams and Marancy, is this address of 168 H Street, first floor, South Boston. We're seeking a deferral today based upon the new process that just passed the BPDA board a few weeks ago regarding rolling recommendations. Since we've received the recommendation of the BPDA to increase our front yard setback to be sufficient five with rather than a modal setback, we're asking for a short deferral on this as we have recently revised the plans. Plans have been submitted to both ISD as well as the BPDA for further review. We're just waiting to hear back. So I'm going to pass it over to you for deferrals. Avier, we could do September 12th for this one, and plans need to be saved. Great job of work. Okay, would that man motion? Motion to defer until September 12th? Man, second. Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. It's better brazo. Yes. Mr. Schupperger. Yes. Mr. Valenzio. Yes. Mr. Pennato. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Great. Thank you. If there are no, I don't want to request to move on. The next case will be the way. One four seven five nine zero eight. The governorate housing vehicle into the rear yard in terms of a new roof deck over an existing sunroom. So we're just converting that roof into a deck with access off of the master bedroom with railings. So they in this drawing here the upper plan shows the existing sunroom as a roof. And if I go to the next slide you can see the elevations. Sorry to not keep going. So these elevations here on the left side is the west elevation. So you can see on the third floor that is the existing roof area. The middle elevation is the south elevation. And the proposed roof deck is to go on top of that roof where those floor windows are. And then if you go to the next slide please. And you can keep going. Keep going is the demolition plans. Right here. Sorry. Go back a couple. One more. Here. No, that's sorry. So where's the plan keep keep going here. Sorry here. This game. This upper plan shows the new roof deck with access off of the new primary bedroom changing a window under a doorway. And then if you go to the elevations you can see how that looks. Keep going. You slide right here. So again on the left hand side is the west elevation is seen from public alley 708. So the new railings are seen on the third level. And in the middle again the south elevation the railings are seen there. So we are seeking relief for this new roof deck. And are there questions from the board? During that I'm going to open a public testimony. Hi. Good morning Madam Chair members of the board. I'm from the office of the neighborhood services. We had no butters meeting for this present November of 22 where they were spot for near butters and at this time of the day to defer to the board. Thank you. And I have no resistance. Okay. With that, I have a motion. Seems pretty straightforward. I'll make a motion. May I have a second? I just want to make a proviso that I believe is this the one that's subject to parks and racks. Rehears. And sorry potentially subject to G card. We have support from the trustees of the reservation Bay of Sentinel letter to ISD and support of our project. And G card was approved on an earlier project on this House in September of 2010. There was a large addition into the rear yard at that time. Okay. The infiltration system was was. Put it at that time. Okay. Thank you. So then sorry. Motion to approve. Yes. It sounds like they were ready. Okay. Sounds good. Thank you. Mr. Stabbridge. Yeah. Is that a browser? Yes. Mr. Shepherd. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Canado. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Chair also votes. Yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair. I'm going to go to the next case. The following on the next case. So we will go on to case B08. One for seven. Six six nine eight. The address of nine 64. Benning of three. The applicant and where the representative. I have to go on for this case and raising. Hello. Hi. Hi. How are you? This is Diana. I have no to propel in the system. So for Benning of three. Is Boston? Just by when I make the basement part of the first floor. And now, there is a one bedroom and one bathroom. Just when I make part of the basement to the first floor. No, you need your own house. That means that. And yeah, I'm planning to move this in the future of it. So can you speak more to what you plan, what you propose for the basement? What kind of use? Not just for family. Just when I play a group in the most green by the garden. And I make a door. So Benning of the playroom. Yeah, there is now a one bedroom and what bathroom. I want to play room. And the mechanic room. Okay. So can you confirm? Is there currently already use of the basement? Is there some use of the basement that you're expanding? Or is this the brand new use? No, now I have the bathroom and bathroom. But I just want to stand to the first floor. Okay. Are there other questions from the board? Madam Chair, we have BPDA feedback. And perhaps Jeff Hamden wants to expand on this. But the feedback that we received BPDA is at the project since below the base flow level. It's on the flood hazard district in coastal flood resiliency overlay. So living units are not allowed in the basement. Yeah, to reintering with Miss Betabaraza said we can't support this with the living space in a flood zone. Okay. Other questions either from Miss Betabaraza or the board? No. Just so this part of the basement is I would like to you know connect to the first floor. That's first floor is for us. Okay. Are there other questions from the board? This is only for Miss Aponte. Are you probably just renovation to the basement? And also to the first floor or just the basement? No, just the basement. Do you understand that your project has a flood hazard, a coastal flood resiliency kind of overlay? That is subject to flooding. So it's just not allowed. I don't plan to live in downstairs. Just the mechanical run and just play room. So are you planning to keep the bedroom on in the basement level? Yeah, there is now one bedroom and one bathroom. So when I grow up, I just leave there in that set. But I just want to collect the first floor to the basement. I mean what I'm hearing is there's already existing bedroom in the basement just FYI. No, this is... But we don't know if did you receive permit for that or did you purchase the home with that new syringe? No, I first picked up the house with that. But I use that the time the first floor may use like storage. Okay, so Mr. Hampton, what would you recommend in this situation? It's so not fair. That's why you're here. I feel awful. I do. I feel sympathetic to the cause. But there's just no way we can support the extension of living space in a flood zone. It's just not something that we're supportive of. Okay, thanks Mr. Hampton. Thank you. Okay, with that can I have public testimony? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor Newman with the Mayor's Office, neighborhood services. This time the Mayor's Office is deferred to the judgment of this board. We have a public committee process. We had the proponent circulate a flyer to a butters within 300 feet. We do not receive any concerns from members or to butters. At the time of the deferred to the board. Thank you. Thank you. Mayor of the race dance. We don't have no addition of race dance. Would that may have motion? Now, motion to deny. No second. Second. Mr. Stemberg. Yes. Mr. Bethebraza. No. Mr. Schephard. Yes. Mr. Balencia. Yes. Mr. Panado. Yes. Mr. Collins. No. Chair votes. Yes, the motion carries. It's lands. This will move to the early schedule for 11 a.m. First being case, BOA. 145. 5410. The address, to Williams. I am Patra Meshadeh. Are you on or I'm here? Representative, can you raise your hand? I'm okay, I see. I'm raising it. Go ahead. Patra, you guys have to request a new. Hello, can you hear me? Hello? Yes, sir. You can hear me? Yes? Thank you. Can you find yourself, please? Thank you. Yes, hello. Patrick Meshad and I own on two Wilkins place and four Wilkins place. Seeking relief by the board to build a 1,515 square foot single family home that is similar in size and designed to many of the homes on the street and in the neighborhood. There are several zoning violations including a lot areas of insufficiency and front and year rare yard insufficiency. These circumstances aren't peculiar to the land itself but peculiar to the land itself and not the neighborhood. At least six of the homes in the immediate area have similar lot sizes. I understand that some of the abouters concerns of a construction mainly over construction traffic. Where I own the adjacent home I have agreed to have any construction vehicles during the rough harm stage to park at both two and four Wilkins place to eliminate any traffic concerns. I also plan to live in the single family home, the new one that will be built. I've also offered to install water holding tanks in each of the abouters on Wilkins place after some neighbors expressing concerns about potential water being created by any potential construction. I've offered to repay Wilkins place after the construction is concluded. Finally, I submitted a letter of support with I believe roughly 63 signatures from residents in Rosendale. One of the abouters, 138 popular street who is probably a bus to Wilkins place has also signed that letter of support. I will make one note that one of the persons that signed in his name is Jeff Metric on the page two of the letter of support. I didn't realize until after he signed that he works in Rosendale but he didn't realize that he actually lives in Saran, Sharon mass so that shouldn't be included in any of the signatures. And without I just secretly from the board. You just confirm what's on that person now? It's just a vacant lot. There is a driveway that's being used by four Wilkins but that would obviously be removed and the Bia Park, the BA driveway for both four and two Wilkins on the left side of both homes. At it. In one last thing, there was some concerns by one of the hearings, one of the meetings about removal of trees. There is no intention to remove any perimeter trees from the lot. There are some overgrowth on the existing lot. In the middle of the lot and that will get removed but any perimeter trees will not get removed. There is probably a good, you know, six to ten tree that line the perimeter of the property. Thank you. Other questions from the board? Do you have a landscape plan for this? It's not on the plans but certainly there will be landscaping done in front of the property and on the side of the property as well but there is none in the plans. No. Thank you. Other questions from the board? Hearing none. Public testimony? Morning Madam Chair, members of the board. This is Diana Marnchuk from the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. At this time we defer judgment to the board. We held a highly attended community meeting in late April or Mr. Mishad addressed concerns of drainage problems by putting an off holding tank on the property. Mr. Mishad also mentioned that he would replace any damage done to the street and that construction vehicles will park at four Wilkins place that Mr. Mishad owns. He did present at the West Village Neighborhood Association meeting in late May. There also drew a lot of attendance of the director of butter is asking expressing similar concerns. We have received multiple letters of opposition from director of butter and state officials. We've also received a few letters in support as well as the mentioned petition list that Mr. Mishad had submitted. Thank you. Thank you. We have a raise hand here. Rose. Second. You looking to get tested in here? I see someone in the chat, Maryam. Who's also asking to give testimony? Second. Okay. Senior hand raises. Maryam, I'll go to you. And you can go back to Rose. And Julie. Rose. Maryam, go ahead. Hi. Are you going to get a thoughts of her? Yes, ma'am. Great. Thank you. I'm Dr. Maryam Kamarami, and I live at 144 Pover Street. My house is catacorn to the proposed construction, and I'm speaking in favor of the construction. My position is really grounded in the climate crisis, which is the most threatening and compelling issue of our time. And I believe that infill housing, such as the proposed structure, has numerous advantages, including because of the location of the dwelling, the people who live in this house would be able to walk rather than drive to neighborhood stores and community businesses to do their shopping, and could also walk to public transportation, or easily the most homes in the Commonwealth. As Mr. Mishad noted, no forest or wetlands would have to be cleared to create room for this new housing. The residents that have a lot shorter commute to work than folks who live in the suburbs and commute to the city. I'm not that city planners across the country are trying to promote this type of building in order to meet climate goals, and many cities are relaxing building codes and even abolishing zoning in order to allow for infill housing to be built. The other short point I want to make is that we have a severe shortage of affordable housing and vastness that contributes to homelessness, gentrification, and lessening of racial and socioeconomic diversity in our neighborhoods. And the main way to address this is to build more housing in every neighborhood, which will make it more accessible for a wider variety of people. Thank you very much. Thank you. Okay. Rose and Julia, you? Yes, can you get up? Yes, ma'am. Go ahead. Hi, my name is Julie Patterson. My mother, Rose Meccos, is a butter and 32-sick water. And I appreciate the concessions that were already outlined mainly around the water and the repeatable of the road. However, the parking is storming to issue. I understand that he said that we could or the construction will have parking. And on property, he does own, but even in just visiting his own property, he's parked far from those places. So that wasn't necessarily a solution. The space that he's speaking about is very tiny. We're concerned about how tiny that space is. And within another home, as far as I understand, this home is not an affordable home. This home is, this community is quickly gentrified and has gentrified my mother and so they're for well over 50 years. And it's one of the remaining property owners since its gentrification. This is just adding to that burden. And it's crowding an overcrowded space. And lastly, during construction, even the slightest construction, there are mice that have been in my mother's home year over year. Construction next door of this magnitude, it's not only the roads and pests, but rats that are already in the homes of our neighbors because of construction. Thank you. Jessica? Yep. Rebecca, go ahead and in the end. Hi, this is Rebecca. Can you hear me? Yes, ma'am. OK, I'll try to be very short. I know time is very limited. We've submitted a written testimony, which hopefully you guys have. So four major concerns. And speaking on behalf of several neighbors, one is that the lot sides. It's simply too small. This is not even mine, you know, violation. There are five major violations which you've seen. So it's not the plot being, you know, short, affordable, and one direction. It's simply an un, you know, buildable lot. And I think there are good reasons that the city has zoning codes with space requirements. And, you know, the appellant has not had forth any demonstrated hardship of compelling these in by he, you know, deserves the variance and should just simply follow the city's zoning rules. Second major concern is that Walkins Place is very narrow, dead and straight. It's basically like an alleyway, frequently caused with redrocks, anything that comes down the street, you know, gets stuck. It can't turn around. Just a plumber or delivery truck will block. I will be able to get out of my driveway. I'll have to go search for whose house they're servicing, you know, go find knock on their car to ask them to move so I can simply drive my child to a doctor's appointment or get my kid to scroll on time. And so, you know, we've talked with the appellant several times in several different meetings. This is just, we're not going to come to agreement on this. I just, many of us simply do not believe that all of the trucks in different vendors that take to build a house over a year can just park on his properties and never walk the street. I just simply, you know, if the house could come down from having built, that'd be one thing, but we just simply do not believe that all of the vendors and the trucks would point you out on his property. This is not possible. Thank you. Thank you. And then, Neon. Hi, Neon. You look at me if that's what you're unmuted. All right. Can you hear me now? Yes. Okay. Great. Thanks for giving me this opportunity to speak. I am also a resident of Wilkins Place. I have the same concerns as my neighbors who are opposing this project. The street is, the lot is too small. The street is too narrow. It's a private way. The residents are responsible for the maintenance and repair of the street. He will not be taking down just a few trees. He will be removing a great deal of tree canopy. And I believe the mayor has a new initiative to have trees on private homes to help address issues of climate change. I also have questions about where Wilkins Place and the parking. I think he said he's going to remove it. I don't think that can happen. And at all of the public meetings we've had in discussions with the developer, he's told us he's selling this at market rate. He has never told us that he would be living at this property. So the city assessment map also notes that this is an unbuildable lot. There is no parking on Wilkins Place at all. There is no parking on Sycamore Street. And it's a tow zone basically because emergency vehicles cannot get down our street. It's a very, very difficult. Thanks. Thank you. I have no additional raise hands. Okay. Would you like to briefly respond to those before we vote? Mr. Mishra? Or maybe he could be specific about construction vehicles. How would he manage that on an hour's street? Yes. Hello. And you hear me? Yes. Yeah, sorry. Just to correct one thing, I definitely will be selling for Wilkins. But the plan is to move into two Wilkins. As far as construction vehicles, there will be two driveways, you know, spots that will be available for construction vehicles. I don't anticipate more than two or three vehicles at any one time. So I don't anticipate any problems with construction vehicles. I understand generally the noise from construction is not something people like. But I also anticipate that construction would be done within six months. As I don't see it being a year-long process, it's a three-bedroom, single-family home. So they'd be using your space where you currently reside because a two-parking space is only 11 foot wide that you're... The parking space, I would leave four Wilkins into Wilkins vacant and have the parking that would be available at four Wilkins available for use by the construction vehicle. Okay. Thank you. No further questions. Thank you. Would that be a motion? Madam Chair, I'd like to put forward a motion of approval with a proposal that the applicant use permable materials for the driveway. I don't think any PBDA review, I think it's a very straightforward design project. Got it. And I have a second, so Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Shepherd. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Panado. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Chair, also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Madam Chair, we will move right if you don't mind. We'll go through the discussions or discussion before 1130 and ask if there are any requests for them with goals or deferrals from that contract. Anyone who's raising energy given looking to defer your hearing? With that then we will return and we will defer on the next case. And we'll have a five-time agreement and move on to case BOA 147-382-8 with the address of 113-122-5th Street. It's applicant and or the representative. Madam Chair, I need to recuse myself for this case and for 18 and 24 Sandish. Okay. Thank you. Okay. Thank you. Hello, Madam Chair. My name is Naomi M. G. I am the architect and co-developer for the project at 114-122-2 Arbor Street and also the next BOA up on the agenda at 18 to 24 Sandish Street. And I'm also here with Travis Lee. Travis would you like to introduce yourself and get us started? Hello, Madam Chair and board. Thank you. It's easy. Brief as a reminder. Thank you. I'm sure. My name is Travis Lee and I am a co-developer in my company as T. Lee Development. We are also joined by Jacob Taylor, our legal counsel from Klein Hornig. My company, T. Lee Development, is a door test-based firm that exclusively develops multi-family housing and small business space in Doorchester. 100% of the housing that we develop is income restricted in some form or fashion. We're here today to talk about two parcels overall, two projects overall, but we're going to focus this particular conversation on 114-122-2 Arbor Street. A couple of years ago, the city of Boston put out an RFP for two vacant lots in Doorchester, one at the corner of Harvard Street in Standish, and one other vacant lot just to have block down Standish. These properties are both vacant. The property that we're talking about right now, 114-122 Harvard Street, is a currently a vacant property immediately about in the MBTA, Talbot Ave, train station. We have over the years held a robust community process that my partner Miriam will tell you more about in just a second. In which this process, the community asks that we proceed with home ownership as opposed to rental. So, we come to this meeting today with a total of 22 units of home ownership housing split between these two properties, these two projects. The 100% of the 22 units will be income restricted at 80%, 90%, and 100% of the area's median income. The 114 Harvard Street project includes 16 home ownership units with about 250 square feet of ground floor retail space. It has one, two and three bedroom units, eight parking spaces off street, as well as an outside courtyard for owners, condominium owners to sit and relax. There are 16 indoor secured bike spaces within the building. And so, I look to pass it over to my council, Jacob, to run through some of the zoning violations that we are here for. Thank you. Can you move to the next slide, please? Is your trying present? Jacob, are you here? Looks like he is here, but he is not a panelist. So, I'm making a panelist right now as you're talking. Jacob, can you just accept the panelist designation when it pops up? There you go. Okay, he could just unmute himself. Thank you. Hey, let's drink a bomb. Jacob, are you able to unmute yourself? Go ahead and unmute. I'm here. Sorry. Apologies for the technical difficulties. Are folks able to hear me now? Yes, sir. Excellent. So, as Travis indicated, 114 to 122 Harvard is a corner of the corner of Harvard. It's an industry. And the law also offers the commuter rail tracks on the other side. The proposed law for this project is 17,600 square feet. They are proposing to build a three-story affordable ownership development with 16 workforce units and approximately 1,250 square feet of commercial retail space on the ground floor with eight parking spaces. The project is going through a small project review with the BPTA together with the 18 to 24 standards project. And this is in a 3 out of 5,000 zone. And we're requesting relief under Article 60 Section 37 with respect to off street parking. Article 60 Section 40 with respect to parking location. Article 60 41.2 with respect to traffic visibility across the corner. Article 60 Section 8 with respect to multifamily residential use. And we're also requesting dimensional appearances under Article 60 Section 9 with respect to front and rear yard, usable open space, water area per dwelling unit and FAR. And I will, if there's no question this plan don't turn it over to Mary M.G. To provide more detail on the design of the project. Thank you, Jacob. Go ahead. Can you advance to the next slide, please? So all of this design, as you can see in the site plan, into the next slide, please has been incorporated in a long and comprehensive design process that we've been working through with the mayor's office of housing, the BPDA, our landscape architects, our civil engineers and members of the Talbot Harbor Triangle. So a couple of things that we'd like to mention here is that we are also very focused on this as a net zero energy green building high performance project. So not only will these be income restricted for 80, 90 and 100% area median income of affordable homeownership units, they're also going to be the top notch most high performance of the pass-of-house style construction for the homeowners saving them a lot on energy and also we focus a lot on green infrastructure. There are existing invasive species trees located along the standard street, kind of right at the corner of the building and where it meets the parking. And after we discovered that these invasive species are growing into an existing retaining wall, a couple of our forests, including our landscape arbitite, advise us to take them down. So we've been working with, speak for the trees and Cynthia Francis to come up with a larger urban tree canopy campaign for the entire THT neighborhood area where we're working with speak for the trees to get private homeowners to accept plantings of private trees for free and to learn about how to maintain their trees in their front and rear yards. And then also working with 311 to create a neighborhood petition to plant more street trees just beyond what's happening on these two lots. It is really hot in this area and these 3 trees that are on the lot right now are some of the only shade that are kind of being provided in the areas who wanted to kind of overcompensate for taking them down. There's quite a lot of canopy at the rear of the property as a buffer against the MBTA rail lines and we've worked with our landscape architect to provide some great street skate frontage and then also private home ownership raised beds, plantings and a courtyard in this scheme. Can you advance the next slide please? So here is an image of some of the raised planting ideas and they're also outdoor balconies for the units. Next slide please. We're also using permeable paving in the design of the parking area to reduce stormwater management concerns. There's also going to be a white roof and a solar array covering 75% or more of the rooftop. This is going to be a low carbon design with organic materials and super energy efficient heating and air conditioning and fresh air exchange. I will say about our community process we held a really successful meeting in April and it was with the BPA and Cynthia and I flyer the neighborhood and we didn't have any opposition from any of the deputters who came out and then furthermore we've received eight different letters of support including from Talbot Harbour Triangle, Dorchester United Neighborhood Association as well as Eury Ellen Timbrindsley neighborhood partnership, Boston Farms Community Land Trust and additionally five or six other Dorchester residents. It is steps to the Talbot Ave Commute Arrayal Station and again there is a by talking inside of the building and on the outside of the building front and we think it's also a great opportunity to include a 1200 square foot commercial retail space. We've got a really robust community process for choosing our retail tenants. We may work with partners such as Union Capital Boston or Boston Eurima Project to find a local or minority or women owned company to occupy the space when the time comes. We've got a very advanced to the next PDF actually which is called Colored Elevations with Bays. We've also met with Council World's Office so the initial submission here we've advanced the elevation of the design so actually I'll need to get to another file which is submitted and the file is called Harvard Elevations Bays Color. These are the revised elevations. Thank you very much. This in working with feedback that we heard from neighbors and also from Council World's Office along Carver Street you'll see the area above the commercial space. There's a black course at the commercial ground level retail which can be activated with the canopy and has nice street trees and benches. Above that area we have this red horizontal siding with some nice million windows, casement windows and these bays indicating where the living spaces are on the different units and then it also terms the corner. We have a more traditional horizontal and wooden band siding and then also porches that are very reflective of the triple deckers in the neighborhood. We kept this as a three-story walk-up building to be respectful to the context of the neighborhood and we think this design is really great and will offer homeowners a chance to live in a great building that also looks like the existing context in the neighborhood. Okay. Do you want to take questions? Yes, ready for questions? Thank you. Can you see if Cynthia Francis is in the audience? Remember you're asking the Madame and Dazsett and can take a look. Are there any questions from the board? No, just a quick question. I think it's stressful. A affordable ownership project. We don't see those too often and the fact that they're net zero is also terrific. So I applaud the development. I know went through an extensive article 80 process. Thank you. Thank you. But in the United States, this is an answer. This is what I'm going to ask you. Next one, I'll go to the next one. Actually, in the pending cases, should I be? Yes. This is the next one is in the right here. So we just take a photo on purpose. Next time? Yes. With that being said, this 1.2, 1. 1.4 is 1.2 out of the street. This is a complaining case to case B.O.A. 147, 3.1 with the address of 18 to 24 to Stanford. And the applicants are spoken on that. We have comments, questions from B.T.D. and the Bayer's Commission on disability. And I'd like to ask, yeah. Okay. Go ahead. From the Boston Transportation Department, they suggest that the installation of a hand-to-hand park perspective, is that something that folks won't be able to do? Yes, we do have hand-to-hand-to-cap parking spaces available in the site plan. Okay. So, from the architectural access specialists, their comments, the building has home or 1.4 department. The building has one accessible residential entrance and this through the parking lot. It's one of the sidewalk entrance. And they have a very accessible and they would need to seek a variance with the Bayer access mayors commission to person, to the building. If they do not plan to make all the entrance to the facility, any comments from that? Yes, there are in fact two accessible entrances, one off of Harvard Street that leads into the main residential area, which comes in on a small ramp off-brain and then also the ramp from the larger grade change down to the parking. Thank you, thank you for the welcome, thank you very much. Okay. Any other questions from the board? Yes, now, chef. Also, I agree with Ms. Pignado. This is really good to see 22 four-hour or in-compressed district at home, only on archipelago and the greenery. Thank you for that. And the question is, the 22 units, you have eight parking spaces. So, if you can quickly tell us what the plan to allocate those eight parking spaces for the two-year units. I'll go ahead and clarify the 20 units as a cross-bost site. At this site at 114 Harvard Street, we have 16 units and so we have eight parking spaces available. So, there are two options that we could take with the condominant association. You can go to first come first serve or often what we do on projects like this is we can offer a lottery where you can enter the lottery every year and then you kind of exchange so he won the lottery the previous year before so that people can have a different chance when they get access to the parking spaces that have the reserve for themselves for the year. Is the parking free of cost or the sale will have to pay for the parking? The parking is free of cost. Okay. And Giovanni, one other thing, the six unit building that is downstandish, the second part of this overall project has three parking spaces of its own. So, there's a total of 11 parking spaces or a total of 22 condominium units. Thank you. Thank you. Other questions from the board? Hearing none may take public testimony. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. I'm actually going to come to the neighbors offices and other services. Again, the BPA helped me to meet in public with these projects back in April. Great attendance of support from the community. Also support from the neighborhood's physical association table. I will try to go with that and different stuff. Thank you. We're going to ask the other public officials not to be repetitive if you're supporting or not positioned. But I'm going to start with Mr. Ross since you're the PM. Thank you. I won't be. I won't take too long where BPA is in support. Just like Ashley said, there's well attendance at the public meeting in the general civil associations were in support of this all affordable project. Thank you. In more Madam Chair members of the board, as Ashley said, THT gave the support. Additionally, West of Washington Coalition gave the support and with that the council of Lexic Law and Records for this project. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Paul Solvins, he has a lot of members. Why are you coming to support? No raised hands at the moment. Okay. Would that be a motion? Madam Chair, I would like to put forward a motion to approve the project. Thank you, Mr. Cambridge. Yes. Mr. Berraza. Oh, she recoupes yourself. Mr. Sheffield. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Panato. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you very much. But with that, we'll be moving ahead to case viewing. 1, 4, 4, 6, 7, 6, 7. The address of the recording plus second street is. Yeah, the 10 and the representative. Yes, Mr. Cambridge. Thank you. Good morning, Madam Chair members. My name is George Moran, and I'm an attorney with the business address of 350 West Broadway, South Boston. Madam Chair, members, all copies brief is possible about this. But I will start to summarize in that everything about this slide is completely as built. And it's been built for a number of years. But here it was. I won't say big stuff, but I want to pay for it was not exactly properly categorized and filed. It was during the time of the pandemic when this building completed construction and was issued in the final certificate of occupancy. The project was approved in March of 2014 or 2019 units with 40th garage parking spaces. It was been litigation within a budding time to expose the agent which was settled in 2016. My client at the time who got the building approved sold the project to another client to buy. I am currently subsequently completed construction and received the building certificate of occupancy in 2020. In 2018, while construction was ongoing, Mr. Connelly talking increased about the parking in the garage from 43 to 51 spaces by introducing some additional vehicle stackers. Board final operating hearing was conducted in January of 2018. Shortly before that hearing, my client added an additional stacker system to the plan to bring the parking spaces up to 70. This was before the era when updated plans had to be first submitted to ISD before they could be reviewed by the ZBA. The board of appeal acting in its board final operating capacity improved the increase of parking to 70 spaces on January 30 of 2018. After approval of the BPDAA raised objections to the amount of parking in the additional stacker systems and revised the parking net of 54 spaces. Exceeding the 43 originally approved by the board but less than the 70 approved board final operating. One of the things we are seeking to do today is to confirm for ISD, by the paperwork since this was again done as board final obiter, prior to the pandemic that the number of parking spaces in the garage is 54 that is in existing condition as built. Additionally, during construction the workers built two rooftop penthouses, our headhouses, the buildings two common stairways leading to from the roof which is an occupied roof. This bill exceeds, at the time when these two penthouses were built again this was construction that essentially around the time of the pandemic when building inspectors were not visiting buildings because of the safe building culture requirements for common stairway leading from the ground level to the roof, which is dragging into a penthouse for all buildings of four more stories with an occupied roof. And the same for all buildings containing roof mounted elevator equipment. The workers completed those two common stairways leading to the roof and erected two penthouses instead of one. As I said, the field inspections at this time were not really being conducted. This one had noted until my architect, file plans at the request of ISD, to show the garage parking layout to confirm that 54 number of parking spaces for the certificate of occupancy. At that time my client's architect called out that second roof top penthouse which again has been built for the past three or four years. ISD then set, issued the current refusal letter on the amended application and what we're then, therefore thinking to do is sort of clean up paperwork and to reflect the addition of the second common headhouse in the correct number of parking spaces. So there's no reduction actually in the number of parking spaces again, it's how housekeeping matter and the existing penthouse, the new penthouse that's shown on the plan is in proposed that was built at the time that the building was under one construction, received final inspections and certificate of occupancy about three years ago. So that all of us and take any questions. Okay, are there questions from the board? Madam Chair, do you have a question? The first penthouse that was approved by the prior ZBA board? Yeah, that's correct. At the end, it's not really clear up paperwork. It's allowing you to continue with having a second penthouse that was not prior, priorly approved. That's correct. By clearing up the paperwork, I don't need to suggest to try to minimize this, but what I am suggesting is that the building actually underwent final inspections, certificate of occupancy. So it wasn't noted at the time again, the assumption was because these were two internal common stairways leading to an occupied group with building a cantal, elevated mechanical. The workers had to direct that additional process. Typically, your typically your architect is on site through the construction process. I agree and again, I'm not trying to make excuses, but it was actually during COVID. I would just went to the floor for final habiter in January of 18, but construction didn't start and was ongoing in 2020. And as soon as the architect was asked by ISD to submit the amended application for the parking, it included the penthouse. The penthouse, the new plant examiner called out the penthouse, and that's why my client was asked to revise the plant as he could see the new penthouse is clouded and clarified that it is in fact a new penthouse. It is built and it has been built and it's been there again for this point approximately three years. And it's centrally located, fairly centrally located in the building, not visible from the street. And of course, a lot of the mayor's office is the speech community process, but the neighborhood was flying, describing the process. There was only one neighbor who did have a concern and they had to deal with the parking rather than the penthouse. So I admit that less than ideal that an additional common headhouse was constructed, but it wasn't done so to intentionally subvert the door or the zone for the B-D-A. I think I would just encourage the owner to ensure that the architect is engaged throughout the construction administration process, so this doesn't happen again. It does. Again, I'm making any excuses, but the architect has retired and I'll stop it. And I will leave it at all. It's actually retired at the time of this building when the construction and I'll retire it about the same time. So again, not an excuse by the mitigating factor. And now it's actually still been working on this involved here to log in with the steering today from retirement. But I just want to do that. All right. Thanks for the explanation. Thank you. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Actually, we have comments from the Transportation Department. I think Mr. Beniko is too not here, right? Do you want to read it? Yes, he's recommending the board of the point to that handicap spaces should be for and to install for electric charging stations. Mr. Nancy? Again, it's not new construction, the building is built in parking spaces in the garage or all accounted for. Any other questions from the board? Sharon, not can have public testimony. Good afternoon Madam Chair, members of the board. I'm Anna White with the mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. 340 West Second Street was approved by the board in 2014. To make the community aware of this new amendment, we had the proponent flyer every address within 300 feet. Two residents then had questions with which the proponent answered. We are aware of no other concerns at this time. We'd like to defer judgment to the board. Thank you very much. Thank you. Good afternoon Madam Chair, members of the board. I'm Anna Calleran from Council President Flue's Office. The councilor would like to go on recording support as we have heard of concerns from our voters and these. So thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, pass all of us in the council by the legal clarity. Knowing of no opposition to House of Toronto support. Thank you. I can mail you. Can we get this one? Hi, yes. My name is Camille Platt. I'm the project manager with the BPDA for 340 West Second Street. As George had mentioned in July 2017, they filed a small project change to change the programming of the project. And the BPDA board saw and approved this change in August of 2017. So speaking in support. Thank you. Thank you. No additional votes. Hey, look at me. I have a motion. Madam Chair, I'd like to perform a motion of approval. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Nice to meet you. Mr. Brasa. Yes. Mr. Shepard. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Pennato. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Thank you. So we're going to take a break after the next one. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Ms. Elizabeth абene. Yes. Thanks. Please. Whoever has come. Okay thank you. We're waiting. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks. Thank you. In 19-121 Addison Street Project was built as a bright executive suite and then Attorney Lins presented to Harvard University Association, presenting for the change from executive suites to the USA's units. And this was voted on with three in favor, 33 in opposition because of this and because of the community, voicing other opposition, the councilor would like to oppose this project as well. Thank you. Thanks. ES, are you looking to get testimony? Let's see your hand. No, I'm sorry. I'm just going on for the one o'clock. I can't lower my hand. Thank you. Oh, no. I have no additional raise hands, Madam Chair. May I respond briefly, Madam Chair, to the councilor? Yes, sir. Yes, sir. Yeah, so again, a couple of issues here. This area, this neighborhood, is predominantly residential. The only use that has forbidden in this district. There is a long history behind this site. I client did acquire it with the intent to develop it. At the time, there was opposition to any type of residential development. He did proceed with, as suggested, with what he was permitted to do as a matter of right at that time. And again, that was prior to the Zoni Commission and the city's shift in policy with respect to executive suites. There is an ongoing planning process in East Boston currently. I believe this neighborhood will actually be re-sealed to multifamily residential in the future. I believe the DPEEA's recommendation respects you. The change of occupancy confirms that this is consistent with planning, spots, and objectives and polls. I'm kind of surprised that I hear opposition from, um, uh, certainly the counselor we were in high-off rate, an IDP unit voluntarily based upon the proposal to change this to residential housing. Certainly the need for affordable units in the city of Boston, um, you know, is important. Now, my client recognized that and we certainly recognized the importance of being able to pay ownership opportunity and willing to offer. One of those is IDP board on required to do so. Thank you. Well, that may have motion. Um, I am for a motion to approve with a proviso that a housing agreement be finalized prior to the issuance of the building permit. Thank you. Thank you, man. The second. Mr. Cambridge. Yeah. Mr. Barrazo. Yes. Mr. Shepard. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Canado. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Sure. Also votes yes. Motion carries. Let's take a two minute break. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Stembridge. Brother. Mr. Barrazo. Brother. Mr. Shepherd. Mr. Valencia. Mr. Pinato. Mr. Collins. Mr. Coralans. Mr. Stembridge. Thank you. Madam Chair. Will proceed to the recommendation. Get to 4.30. Yes, Madam Chair. I'm just going to interrupt. Mr. Pettico was the request to be heard for the phone board in regards to the subcommittee case for the address of 12 Amper Street. As this is a subcommittee recommendation before we go to approve this recommendation or make a new vow to defer it to a later date. At the sound, I'll pass it over to the Secretary of Stembridge. Thank you. That case being case B.O.A. 143-175-3 with the address of 12 Amherstery is the one that we have here. Oh, I'm sorry, I'm feeling a bit bad here. Going back and beginning of the recommendation, this person being a case B.O.A. one, I'll read the subcommittees decision and then we'll go to the under-media. The case B.O.A. 101928-1012, the address of 1012, the total was approved. The browser had one pound of space. Oh, I'll give you one second, Madam Chair. You don't have to follow them every time. Okay, starting from the right, one this time, case B.O.A. 146-409-101, the address of 244th Street. The address of 244th Street, over 1 approved. Case B.O.A. 141632-7, the address of 964th, the server-total street was approved. Case B.O.A. 148-084th Street, with the address of 500-poilth Street was approved. Case B.O.A. 148-084th Street, the address of 244th Street was approved. Case B.O.A. 144th Street was approved. Case B.O.A. 146-7, 522, the address of 10 St. Modern Street was approved. Case B.O.A. 1399-573, the address of 16 411th Street was approved with no building code. Case B.O.A. 1399-546, the address of 45th Street. Case B.O.A. 146-1000, the address of 86th, ramping way was approved with BPD8 design. Case B.O.A. 13019-2800, the address of 10 St. Roder, 10 St. Roder, with approved, with the driver of 1 5th Street. Case B.O.A. 143-6951, the address of 10 to 10 A Rock Bill Street. Case B.O.A. 147-2867, the address of 210 Wausley-Bill-Happen, was approved. Case B.O.A. 147-1763, the address of 247-303-147, the address of 147-303-147, the address of 147-303-147, the address of 247-303-147, the address of 247-303-147, the address of 247-303-147, the address of 247-303-147, the address of 247-303-147, the address of 247-303-147, the address of 247-303-147, the address of 247-303-147, the address of 247-303-147, the address of 247-303-147, the address of 247-303-147, the address of 247-303-147, the address of 247-303, the address of 247-303, the address of 247-303, the address of 12 members of the human world to die, and I'll be omitted, this was the one that is a question of human body control. That was the one, right now, in case you were away, 143-143, the address of 141-147, the address of 241-147, the address of 241-147, the address of 241-147, the address of 241-147, the address of 241-147, the address of 241-147, the address of 267-303-147, the address of 267-303, the address of 257-257, the address of 257-257, the address of 257-257, the 145, 271, the edges 33, 35, short, or the crew with no-dirted clothes. And that puts that to the end. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Can I have a motion? More than one. I'm sure I would like to vote for a motion for all their recommendations from the subcommittee. Second. Okay. Mr. Stambridge. Yes. Mr. Berrazo. Yes. Mr. Shepard. Yes. Ms. Valencia. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Patel. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Charylson, let's see how motion carries. How the air do you suggest this case and then the one PM? Yes, ma'am. I'm from many that's just one or two cases that we would have skipped to the one PM. I'm going to say this case and unless you think unless we cannot start before 1PM. I have the SI agreement. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. With that, we want to be special. We have to be aware of one of each other. In the last few years, we have to be aware of the address of the five favorites. Which we will be speaking about that. The rest of the major problem. If the applicant is present in speech of that. The applicant is the representative. The applicant is the representative. He is the representative. The applicant for the dates will have for it at this point. Our September 26th for October 17th. But again, we have to be in presence to speak to that. 75 Mayward on. There's a raise to you. Okay. Is that because it's them seven? Something or something. Yeah. Well, how you going to get after them? Yes, I'm the applicant for 75 Mayward Street. Okay. Can you identify yourself and your dress and please let us know what you're seeking relief for. My name is Clayton Weston. I'm a little bit 17th-sad in street of Roxbury. I'm seeking a dofaro as I'm still waiting for the updated refusal letter. This is for 75 Mayward? Correct. Okay. Well, that may have a motion. Motion to remove the dofaro. Can I have a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. It's better to browse out. Yes. Mr. Schaffer. Yes. Mr. Relancia. Yes. Mr. Panato. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Votes, yes. Motion carries. Do you have a date on here? Yes. September 26th. Okay. On that case, next case. Thank you. The next case is a B.O.A. 131-9563. Yeah, there's being one to three out of the street. The applicant and whether they're representative. Yes. Good afternoon. Madam Chair, members of the board, Mark LeCas. LeCas lost 75 Arlington Street in Boston. I'm turning for the proponent. And with me as well as Min Kooke King, our project manager from Westwork and Katie Fockner, the ARP detect, also from Westwork. Today is before you, a project which has been approved by the BPE. Under article 80 Small Project Review, following 830 month community review process. Next slide. The project program highlights are that it is a 40 rental unit building. One of which will be occupied by the Webster family, the proponents of the project. Previously, it had been 47 units, but through the community review process was reduced to 40 units. It has been approved by the BPE board pursuant to the compact unit living policy. There are 22 studios and 10 one bedroom units that are consistent with the compact unit living policy. And then there are eight standard size two bedroom units. On the ground floor, there's a commercial retail space. And because the building is proposed on the compact unit policy, there are additional tenant amenities including ample by storage, co-working area, a gym, flexible rooms, and a common roof deck. The community benefits package under the article 80 approval includes seven IP units, which is 18% of the total proposed. The number is public realm improvements, including a sidewalk expansion, new trees, landscape plan, bike parking, street furniture, and improved accessibility. There's a strong sustainability commitment that the architect can tell you more about, but the building of design to pass it has standards, including low carbon materials such as cross-liminated timber. There's a blue bite share contribution and other contributions to community groups. Next slide please. Project proponents are pictured here. Scott Webster and his two sons, Joe and Sean have resided at this property for many generations, and are going to retain ownership of the property and are going to live in the building as well. The picture on the lower left is showing the existing property, the Red House, with the storefront location in the front. And in the background you can see the Islamic Cultural Center, and in terms of the next slide please. The planning context and the programming elements, I'll turn it over to Min Kukang and Katie Fartner to walk into the balance of the presentation. Thank you. Hello Madam Chair and members of the board. My name is Min Kukang. I'm the development manager representing Mr. Scott Webster with an office at one of three terrorist groups. Mission hell MA 021 to 0. I'm happy to give a quick overview of the project context. To start with, the project was transit oriented development. The project site is within three minutes of walking distance from the Raspberry PiS in Orange Line T station, and other bus stops that are the next people to the Boston downtown of in ten minutes. Next slide please. There is currently a few story building that contain the single family own and the owner restaurants where the Scott family has reside in four or three years. Next slide please. We believe it is an appropriate location to add density. The site is within the community college building. We are neighbors with the last group in Orange and the mosque. That are building out of six feet, eight nine feet and 130 feet. With other five, six and seven story buildings in the neighborhood that's highlighted in this map. We believe our post is nine feet building fits well within the neighborhood context. Next slide please. Given that the site is also on the bottom of four hill, we believe that added density of our sites will have less impact on the residential site of the neighborhood. Next slide please. Our site is right behind Route 28 and also next to next street. Next slide please. Our site is the only residential address on Ammo Street. Next slide please. It is surrounded by abandoned open space. As you can see, on the site, on the site, on the left, sorry. All the areas marked in green are landscape to request and streets. Next slide please. Also right in front of the site, there is an public plaza in the Rocksburg community college campus, which again helps adding to the idea of more passing to the site. Next slide please. As part of community benefits, we would like to activate this area by investing and improving the sidewalk. There were updates last year that added a fiscal ramps that you can see from photos on the site. Next slide please. We would like to take a short further by sending the sidewalk width and adding more green space when 4-6 new trees. A city area that will work well with the squarer commercial space and also improving the safety and accessibility are reorienting the sidewalks and the streets. This design has been reviewed and confirmed by the EPA and it is further subject to be improved through how the building process makes life please. Thank you so much. Thank you for having us. We are very excited to be doing this project with the Webster family. This project is semi-story building. The many improvements here are ground floor amenities and we think that will actually come a somewhat very busy corner. This is the kind of edge of the Highland Park neighborhood where it comes down against Roxbury Community College. And so by putting some neighborhood amenities, cafe as well as shared space for the residents we are hoping to increase the pedestrian activity here. We will certainly be doing that with the added green space. You can see this is a tight and busy site and among the relief that is being thought here is the rear yard 20 foot setback. We don't have that. Again, this site is not a densely fitably settled residential site but it actually is on the edge of this community college zone. So if there is an appropriate place to increase this kind of density and height we believe that this would be the place. Next slide please. This is the basement floor. This is some of the amenities that we are looking for too. By firm there is a gym for the residents. There is some shared and flexible space. And then there is a possible lower level for that corner cafe if that works out. Next slide please. One of the things that we are most excited about this is that this is from Mass Timber construction. We have designed grants to help us work through some of the details on this. In addition to being able to pass up how standards it is also slated to be type 4 construction Mass Timber. We are pleased about that. It is a mix of units. We have compact studio units with Murphy beds. We also have one bed with two bedrooms. We have done a number of energy models and solar studies to try to mitigate against the heat gans. It is a very sustainably designed building not only in the materials and the systems but also in the buildings form. For us two through seven essentially have this identical footprint. Next slide please. But one of the things that is extremely excited about this is that the rental housing and its owner occupied which is really the best of both worlds. For the websters to be developed in their own property after having lived here for decades. And then staying in the property is something that we are very proud to be a part of. They will occupy a two story two bedroom unit on for six and seven. Next slide please. You are going to see the upper room. And then finally this is the roof deck and it is also the shithole mechanical space. There is reserved for solar panels. The building will be designed as solar ready and should budget allow it to be outfitted with solar panels. Next slide please. We went through a historic review process and made some redesigns in their own spring among them looking at the massing of the context buildings, setting a stronger base and a more defined top. So for some of the bottom middle top. Again, we think this is very in keeping with this edge neighborhood that is both at the foothills of a beautiful residential neighborhood that has a variety of 19th, 20th and 21st century housing as well as again being located on the very busy commercial strip of Columbus. It is a walking distance to both the rocks very crossing teased out and the new Bay and Square bus people. So we think it is also a recovery that we have massed for both of those types of commercial and residential districts next. Again, very slight modifications but again looking at the material and trying to graph from some of the examples making the windows appear more double-hung so that they would fit in more with some of the housing but keeping the aspect or the ratio that matches the rocks very community college district as well as using the mainstream materials so that we can tie into both the historic as well as the newer buildings of college. Next. Again, we talked earlier about the massing in the sun studies and why it is modeled the way that it is so I won't forget you hear some views from the neighborhood and then the final slide which is the next slide is to just return to one that Mink who mentioned earlier which is that we understand that there is a densely, at least settled historic neighborhood just up the hill. We occupy what we think of as a transit edge district. It's very walkable. It does not have parking that is another relief that we're asking for. It is extremely convenient to a number of amenities in terms of grocery transit and ring space and again we're extremely thrilled to be having a part of the project. Thank you so much for your time. Are the questions from the board? Okay. And now I'm going to turn over to public testimony. Yes, good afternoon Madam Chair, members of the board. Keisha Santana with the mayor's office and neighborhood services. This project went through the VPA to the nature process. But our offices reached out to the by the heart of the council. We submitted a letter of opposition to the signatures from the butters. The meeting of this project was at the president. They feel it's not matched to the neighborhood due to the size of the units in the right prices. They feel this open a door and are charged to the housing and one-to-one in the area to focus on the purpose of the last day. The generally explored new association is in support of this project due to the work of your family. Public community and want to support local black development. And at this point we would like to invite judges before. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Ross from BKD. Thank you Madam Chair and members of the board. The BKD held two public meetings for this project in April of 2022 and January of 2023. Both were well attended, advertised in local newspaper. The proponent also met with the Roxbury neighborhood council on October 27 of 2022 in the Highland Park neighborhood coalition. Both were in opposition of the project. The project received support from John Elliott Square neighborhood association. Several butters on the Roxbury street. The project also received support from City Councilor Julia Mahay. Furthermore, the project had an advisory body meeting with the Highland Park Conservation District. The project received lots of opposition from the Highland Park neighborhood and some of the community members in that neighborhood. But the BPA does support the project. Thank you. So I'm sorry Miss John, can you elaborate on why the BPA supports the wide improvement? I believe it fits the overall context of the neighborhood as Minkouj showed as well as its close proximity to transit. It is a transit oriented development. It provides well-needed housing. The BPA is a well-needed housing. It is a well-needed housing. It is a well-needed housing. It is a well-needed housing. It is a well-needed housing. It is a well-needed housing. It is a well-needed housing. It is a well-needed housing. It is a well-needed housing. It is a well-needed housing. It is a well-needed housing. It is a well-needed housing. It is a well-needed housing. It is a well-needed housing. It is a well-needed housing. It is a well-needed housing. It is a well-needed housing. It is a well-needed housing. It is a well-needed housing. It is a well-needed housing. It is a well-needed housing. It is a well-needed housing. It is a well-needed housing. It is a well-needed housing. It is a It is a commitment to sustainability as it is also pass of house development. In regards to the community process, Mr. Ross, would you say that the BPA was able to mitigate some of the concerns. It was like, what was the overall kind of community feedback consensus? What was the overall kind of community feedback consensus? Yeah, I say it was more an opposition in between. I'd say in between, there are definitely a lot of very vocal voices that are in opposition, but the developer tried their best to work with the community and listen to their concerns. The community just never came around. Some of the community members never came around on that support, although the project did develop some from there. Kind of comments, that's why I went from 47 units to 40 because during one of the first public meetings, there was an issue about density, so the project proponent tried to lower the amount of units they had. There is a concern about the unit sizes and it being a quasi dorm, so the proponent added to bedroom units in the project. So there were several things that the proponent tried to do to work with the community and some of their concerns. Thank you. Thank you. A problem. Can't start rolling this office. Good afternoon, Madam Chair and members of the board. Jordan here from Council of Reconnaissance, the Royal Office to the link to our recording opposition of this. Thank you. Can you just go? Okay, any other questions from the office? Council can have it. Okay, I'll go to the test and only. I'll start with visit New Ginsburg, which is actually a few folks that have their raised hands, have been started their hands raised. So if you can briefly give us your name and address and tell us if you're in support of opposition and trying not to read off the letter of being extremely helpful so that we can hear all of those. Is there a new guest there? Yes, good morning. Thank you. Thank you. I'm Dr. Muhammad. I'm calling on support of the one-hundredth street in the Scott and the Western family have been in support of the last family community development as well as community mentorship and really preservation about our community, about our local community. We're also in support of our farmers market, which has recently launched a new group square and they've really been an institution and also supporters. I think that we have in our local community and we are definitely in support of the one-hundredth street project as well as the Islamic community Boston. We're also in support of this project and we look forward to seeing the development and seeing the future to grow. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning everyone. I have received a lot of my office and received a lot of opposition and letters of support on this project but it's come up to maybe about 41 letters of support on this project and about an overwhelming over 300 signatures. The signatures of opposition on this project, Helen Parkinson is in the opposition. The developers have reported that reclaimed Roxbury at one point was in support but I have never received a letter from them. I also received a letter from the developers claiming that it's a letter from the commercial tenant but the commercial tenant then contacted me and said that they had not complied with the agreements within the letter. It sounds like a good project if it was less dense. The project is way too dense and violates zoning code and they have not proven that they actually absolutely need to be able to override this. I am going on my current position and also stating that the guy with some charter made with me has sent me letters and opposition. The Roxbury made with council has sent me letters and opposition. Roxbury had four sent me letters and opposition. So just overwhelming letters stating that this is way too dense and it needs to return to community. Community needs that for other, I guess, conversations as to how to get to some sort of common ground on this project. Unfortunately, I will not be able to support this. Thank you. I am writing some big old. Hello. My name is Rodney Singleton. I live at 44th St. Austria in Boston, Massachusetts. I am coming out in opposition to this. The proponent has not demonstrated all that it needs the variance to actually have this much density. Usually, it needs to be dense and there is some kind of hardship to demonstrate this at all. And shame on the BRA for green lighting this in a way that just causes no justification of neighborhood. Thank you. This is it in Newbie and Square. Do we have a few? You call them in the 90s. Yes, okay. Okay, Holly Shepard and then Ena Fox. If you could briefly let us know. Thank you. Madam Chair, this is Holly Shepard, a 45th Popper in Street. I'm speaking as the Chair of the Island Park neighborhood coalition, which is against this project. I'm closing it over the home of 20 second to three. While the neighborhood is in support of the Webster building on their property, which is typically broken zone for two or three units there in a couple of homes and outrageous number of units from the community's perspective. With a set of opposition flags that is ratioed, additionally residents thought that moving such a project would set the fact of suit housing. Okay, Ena Fox and then Black Market in the end. Yes, I, this is Ena Fox. I live at Rolar Terrez in the Island Park neighborhood and actually the other speakers before me, I'm opposed to this have pretty much covered the points. I must say that even though it's right near, it is near a busy corner that corner where the building would be, and Elmwood Street and Roxbury Street is actually still quite residential that building I believe would change that. There's also, even though it is trans-oriented, there is no guarantee that people would not have cars and that would be another issue. And I respect the Webster family. I just wish they would come back to the discussion table. Thank you. Hi, this is Kaye and Chris Grant and we are long time Roxbury residents. We founded John Elliott's Renatehood Association 12 years ago, which is actually the closest of budding neighborhood association. It used to be the center of Roxbury at one point. John Elliott's Renatehood Association dissolved in 2023 in January, but we have downed that's important to this meeting because we took several votes in April of 2022. Our residents found that the director of the budders didn't have any objection to building the projects, and that the residents could be young black urban professionals, not just students. Parking, which is an issue ongoing in Highland Park, nothing new. It's really no one's void because of the situation, Roxbury crossing. And they're giving business opportunities, the Webster family, at the base of their project, in addition to which their owners that would reside in management property, and give opportunity to black families that reside here in Roxbury to either downsize and buy a condo, or again give a young black professional the chance to live in Roxbury. I think that the design is efficient, it's built for sustainability, and we have to consider the fact that Highland Park neighborhood coalition was in support of this at the very beginning of the community process 30 months ago. And all of the sudden there were some difficult communication issues that kind of snowballed. But here we are today, and as a long time John Elliott's where they were not well, residents, I think it's important that we address the issue of the World's Gap and give the Webster an opportunity. Thank you. Okay, I'm going to keep going there. I'm getting more sense here. What's nine? Well, three, I think we were getting a sense of feedback. So, yes, this is one and then we'll go further. Okay, 21 kind of working. Are we director, but I just send a request on getting. Can you briefly tell us the answer for that? Yes, I'm going to go to 21 kind of research about the Highland Park neighborhood. I am writing a list for I'm looking to voice and so in opposition to this project. Seven stories, the 40 unit dormitories to start building will go from 531 square feet to 34,000 square feet. I think that if it's approved, it will set a new standard for development, allowing these large scale buildings to just run rampant across lots of areas. I think the current flood area ratio is two could increase to 6.26. And the allowable height is usually is I believe it's 45 feet and that would go to 69.70. Please add information. Excuse me. Please add new information. How do I do that? Say something different than what previous folks have said. As to why you oppose. Okay. I just think that these projects have the potential to create a new student central. It was going to help and push out more after every moments. All right, thank you. KPM. My name is KPM. I'm a co-secretary of the Highland Park neighborhood coalition. My new information is that this concept of a community process has been really abused. And John Elias, where near good association is now defunct. Even when it was active, they had a vote of nine in favor and four against hardly as a huge sway of the neighborhood. We've had over here. I don't have the correct town of our petition, but it's well over 200. And our first meeting with the family on this property. We were absolutely in support of them building black wealth on their land. We still are. We're asking that they not do it at the expense of the whole community by opening us all up to pro development profits. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. All right. Last one. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks for the time. So, my name is George Yes. I am a longstanding member of Rocksbury. And I'm a young professional. I'm black and Hispanic. And I would love to see this in our neighborhood. I feel like this. This is just a chance for growth in black community. It'll open up a lot of opportunities for people in the area to work. I'm going to have the opportunity for people to like to community events there. I know the family is very big. We're in the community. It's really like to see that's why I'm professional in some. Thank you. Okay. Why don't we give the applicants a brief opportunity to. Thank you, Madam Chair. I think I would just like to offer the opportunity to Mr. Scott Webster. It was the proponent and the owner to just speak very briefly and summarize. Rebellion to be the voice of his own project, Scott. Thank you for that. Yeah. I just very quickly want to summarize that my family and I both my two sons and I are developing this property. We are fourth generation folks in Roxbury and I know all my neighbors. I think that the most important thing that I think the disconnect here is that in our location in the college sub district, we have to come before you for zoning relief for anything at all. If I wanted to change my stare, I would have to do that. So that's important to understand. But also we're in an area at the bottom of the hill and really at Roxbury crossing. We're not in the center of Highland Park. We're at the very edge of it. And what surrounds us is really significant buildings with a great deal of density. And so it fits perfectly fit there. You know, folks are concerned about density but we have all the apartments around us. We don't have two family, three family houses or single family houses around here. We are transportation sensitive and we're building it to passive standards. And we think that we understand the fear of something new. But we're providing much need housing and I should point out affordable housing because these are smaller units. The rate is going to be smaller compared to other places and we're going to be marketing to either older people who are looking to downsize or younger people who are looking to stay. So we're going to live in the building. So with all of that, we think when it's all said and done, it will be a positive thing for the community. Thank you for your time. Any other final questions from the board? Yes, Madam Chair. I have a question for Mr. Webber. What's your question? Is it home ownership or rental? It's rental. Yes. Okay. So I'm, you know, we've heard from some of the community members in terms of supporting the Black developer, bringing wealth to your family. What about, you know, have you thought about potentially home ownership? Or, you know, can you just speak on some of the fear that your community members have in terms of being displaced with potential increase in rent? And can you also talk about what you're thinking in terms of your rent, your performance for and for your average unit in terms of monthly rent? Sure. I would prefer to Miko, who is our development manager who has all of the numbers. But I do want to talk to, we decided to do rental because of, you know, conversations with neighbors about, you know, I've got a big house and I want something smaller or young professionals as one of the participants mentioned that want smaller places. And affordable places, not only in terms of the rent, but also in terms of utilities. We're projecting based upon the past of house standards, you know, around $35 per month for utility, which is heat and air conditioning. And folks can walk out the building across the street to the team. So we think that that works. And, you know, we're looking for more affordable housing. This is a little outside the box because they use a little smaller, but it works. And, you know, we think that that... So affordability is to have a decrease in utility bills for potential renters. So, you know, if you can provide just comparison of like, you know, that it is affordable rents that your project is promising. I can add to that. So 80% of our 40 units, the seven units will be affordable, they are IDP units. So we have increased the affordable rates from 13 to 18%. So, affordable rents, details, some of them are up and living. You'll be much even lower than the rest of the same size of affordable rents out there. The rest is market and rate units. We have 33 market units. Among which there is a mix of the subitium, on midium and studio units. And also because of the market living standard, by line, we were able to manage to have the rent under its lower than the new developments. And the new developments on the payments should be decided to about 10 minutes walk away from our building. So we are benefiting from the cockpit living, by line, by providing smaller, but much efficient units with advanced market beds. And that would also have a lot of many cases within the building that will ensure availability. So, your points are generally much lower than what you see on the same area. I think we want a number. Just, like, market rates. So the market rate now, apparently, on the studio side, the rates that we see now are 2600 to 2800 units on the trade street side. And the numbers that we're using now are 2400 units on the studio. And those are not giving units for us. I can need to move more on for one bit to give. If I could just expand upon this better broadcast, this question about rental versus ownership. In part, it has to do with the financing partners here. This is not traditional bank financing. The financing is coming from a number of different sources, the Healthy Neighborhood Equity Fund, the Massachusetts Housing Investing Corporation, and the Conservation Law Foundation. So a lot of their requirements are contrary to kind of ownership development. And that is a significant impact on this project's financing. Could I just ask the proponents that they would be living there? The maximum unit sizes you've mentioned are two bedrooms. So you're living in two bedroom units? Yes, we're living in a two bedroom unit. Like separately, or you mean altogether? No. Well, my wife and I, my two sons, who one lives with me now, one does it. Okay. They will not be living now. This is our chance to shed our kids. Okay. This one's to understand that we've seen like a lot of people for two bedroom units. Any other final questions from the board? Okay. Will that be able to motion? Any motion? Okay. I'm going to make a motion. This is a transit or interdevelopment that is providing motion-earned housing to the city and with that I'm going to make a motion to upload the project. Okay. We have a second. I assume with BPD a design review? BPD in a sample room. Is that a second? A second. Okay. Mr. Stambridge. Yes. It's better for all of them. I'm voting yes because I want to support more housing house construction, I want to bring back to bring well to black developers. And I think in our ways some of the community concerns that has been embraced, I do see a public benefit. Thank you. Mr. Schupper. Miss Sackett. Is there a opinion right there? So yes. Okay. Mr. Roancia. Yes. Mr. Nato. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Chair also votes yes. The motion carries. Thank you so much. Thank you. Good luck. Madam Chair, this is Havir. Since it's 1.15 I recommend to use the court remand case out of order and call that into the right. Yes sir. So court remand. Mr. Stambridge. Yes. The court remand is of 1.00. Yes. It's case number 08. 1.1.77. 9.1.2. The address of 80 to 80 to what was worth. The 8.2.84. Was it worth? Sadly. Yes. Yes. Is there a reason. If the slider White will set the date for this and send it again. Right now, I view the party. Chair, members of the Board of Attorney Ryan Spitz, for the Outings of Maranty, Business Adder of 168 H Street, First Floor, South Boston. As many of you board members know, this has come before this board multiple times, and we're here again presenting. Madam Chair, I'm gonna be as brief as possible, but I know some of the board members have not seen this presentation, so I'd like to just go forward to a full presentation, but again, I'll be as brief as possible. With me today is Peter McLeary, from Media Parkes. He's the operator of the billboard, and there are also a few other board members of the Polish club joining us today. This is a proposal is for a conditional use permit to construct a 14 foot by 48 foot single-faced digital billboard, freestanding pylon to the rear of the property of 82 through 84 Boston Street. Overlooking Interstate 93, which is owned by the Polish American Citizens Club, a non-profit organization. We understand and respect the city's position on billboards, but this is a very unique proposal that would also allow to assist in the city's vision of decluttering billboard signs in our residential neighborhoods by committing to remove existing billboard locations from residential neighborhoods in consideration of adding one digital face billboard overlooking Interstate 93, a location where billboard should be and not what they're not neighborhoods. The locations being identified today for removal of a Strand Theatre, 543 Columbia Road, and another location on 43 Treble Street. This will remove four faces from our residential neighborhoods. Strand Theatre, just a little bit of background. Strand Theatre was permitted back in 1918, which had two permits for two signs at approximately 12 feet by 24 feet. And now it currently lies that there is one big sign at 20 feet by 50 feet located on that property. The Treble Street location, a little bit more history on that, that dates back to 1945, which actually has two signs, both one on the front and in the rear of the property. One thing that I do like to acknowledge there are legal documents in place here with the owners and the, of the real estate here, just allowing the terms of these billboards to actually be removed. However, we cannot reveal those terms as those are confidential. Further, what we wouldn't like to add is a request for a proviso that a permit shall not issue until the commitments of those locations or those billboards have been taken down. The use is forbidden, which would require the board to grant a conditional use permit. If approved by this board, the proponent would also have to further engage the Conservation Commission for further review on the year-right open space, as well as seek the state for approval of our door advertising. By way of history, this address is the home of the Polish club, a non-profit organization that has been in existence for over 81 years and has been a vital part to this to access the community that is referred to as the Polish triangle. Again, the billboard is located in the rear of the property overlooking Interstate 90 tree. To the right of the property, there are a couple of a body parcels on what is known as Ross's Street, that are the only residential neighbors to have any sighting of the billboard, which is minimal. The view from their properties can only be the side of the sign and not a head-on view. Given this, the operator has decided to use a new light-walking technology that eliminates any light illumination coming from the billboard to where these properties align. The operator further agrees to add a proviso stating that if this light-walking technology does not function as it's supposed to and as expressed to the neighbors of Ross and Street, then the sign will come down. Further, there will be new plantings added to the rear of the property to further assist the neighbors with air pollution caused by the highway. Lastly, we understand the BPA's recommendation, and if approved, the operator will comply with all conditional requirements under Article 11, Section 6. But we'd like to amend the hours of non-operation from 2 a.m. to 7 a.m. to 12 a.m. to 7 a.m. to prevent any distractions during those dark morning hours. At this point, I'm going to pause for any questions or comments from the board. Thank you, Mr. Spitz. Just to confirm the three billboards that you're referring to that this would replace, what's the progress on that? I know at the time that previously some were already finalized and some were not. Yeah, so all these boards, there is actually a written agreement between the operators and the landowners. But again, we cannot just close those actions agreements because of the confidentiality terms within those. But those are, and again, that's the reason why we were requesting a proviso that, in less those three locations are fully taken down, then no pergit shall be issued for this provoked. Understood. And that was a self-imposed sort of requirement. Yes. Yes. OK. Other questions from the board? Well, can we hear from the BPDA and what their recommendation is? That's sort of crucial to our decision making. Mr. Hampton. Are you there, Mr. Hampton? OK, I'm not sure if he's there, and I don't have any. Sorry about that. Press the wrong button. Thank you, Madam Chair. I'm Mr. Gourd, Jeff Hampton, BPDA. Our recommendation for this is to Nile Electronic Billboards of Forbidden outside of those three designated areas in the city where their conditional use is. We feel that because it is of Forbidden Use and the location is inappropriate, we are on the record being against this proposal. Thank you. Mr. Hampton. Madam Chair, I can just respond to Mr. Hampton as well. So again, we do appreciate the concerns of the BPDA and their recommendation. We honestly believe that the reason behind what the BPDA adapted these was to remove these from our neighborhoods. For this is a location that's going to be overlooking 93. That's not going to be factored into the neighborhood with the model here is that we're going to be removing three locations that are actually within our neighborhoods in the city of Boston. So again, we can respect that. But we firmly believe that this is a location overlooking 93 with Billboards should be placed. Thank you. Thank you. Other questions from the board? The key just confirmed that the billboard is a way 660 feet from the highway, or is not how close in proximity is it? Correct. And Peter McLeary is here with us today that could probably give us a little bit more clarification on those distances as well. Peter, I don't know. In the second. The sign itself is going to be up against the wall of the volition. Citizens' club, I would say that it's probably 30 or 40 feet from the highway, the 660 feet. Question, I believe, is that the federal and state out-to-ravertizing rules govern everything from the right of way out to 660 feet. So this is governed by all rules and regulations federally and with the state of Massachusetts. So right now, it's violating that, correct? No, no, no, no. It's not violating the federal highway, 660 feet bus for zone. The 660 feet is actually where all the regulations for the state and the federal agreements come into play. If you're beyond 660 feet, there is no regulation. So these are, this meets every single regulation of the state and federal CMR. It's within all their guidelines. You missed better parasa. Will still, if it's approved here by this board, we still have to see state approvals for outdoor advertising as well. Yeah, I mean, my sense is that as a zoning board, we do rely upon the recommendation of BPDA with regard to this type of signage that it's a federal highway safety rules and regulations. And I feel like we are really our sort of, it's important that we rely upon the experts who are looked at this carefully in the recommendation of BPDA. I mean, I would say I'm interested for the applicant to really outline why what special conditions or harsh if you have that you're seeking the variance and what's depriving you from reasonable use of that land. To me, that's more so than the BPDA's kind of recommendation. I think we have to really. Well, it's forbidden. It's a forbidden use. Correct. Correct. Yeah, I think I would say this to BPDA's recommendation, they generally oppose digital board. I mean, billboards in general. So they only have certain zones that are allowed. So I wouldn't say this is a better or worse recommendation than any other that's a denial. So I think let's get in as better as this question answered as well. OK. I can try to address that also. As far as the safety concerns are, that one portion of your question are statement. The state conducted probably a four-year study on the safety of digital billboards before adopting regulations to govern them. And any digital billboard that is constructed or permitted by the state office about their advertising has a one-year trial period where they look at traffic crash data from the year prior and traffic data from the year after the operation of the billboard. If they find a significant increase, they will have the board remove themselves. I have not seen that yet because on the list of distractions for drivers, digital billboards are actually way down, much below eating cell phones, putting your makeup on, and just general distractions of other sorts of talking to people in your car. The other, the hardship is that there is really no property that the Polish club owns the street. That is shown that it looks like it's, they park some cars in. It's actually a street that's owned by the city of Austin. It goes nowhere. And the Polish club has been maintaining it now for years. But there can be no outside seating. They have no room in the back. It's a small triangular shape piece of property. If you put back up the survey of the property, it's really, they're so limited in what they can do. That little road there is not land that is owned by the Polish-American citizens club. And even half of the sidewalk is owned by the city of Austin. So they're trying to raise revenue, guaranteed revenue that lapses in annuity for the next 20, 30 years by doing this because you see the small triangle piece in the back that can't be used for anything. It's an, it's an, it's an, it's an, it's really no access to it even. Can I ask two follow-up questions? One is just in terms of the impact on its, a butters, so it doesn't have an as early effect on the neighboring properties. One is I saw that there's windows behind the billboards. Is that going to affect the internal use of that space because now you're blocking windows. And then the other is do you have the support of 31 Rolson Street, which I see might be the most that might be impacted by the billboard? We have the support of 31 Rolson Street. We have the support of two other Rolson Street neighbors. We don't have, to our knowledge, we've engaged with Rolson Street and everybody is supportive of this project as far as the windows are concerned. Those are windows that are either in the basement of the Polish vongu, which is not something I'd want to look at either, but it's their decision as to this was going to be the most beneficial place to put this. And with the technology that we have on this, that can't be changed. It's a manufactured technology. The light will only emanate in certain areas. And no one from Rolson Street or any other street, Boston Street, will be able to see this sign that's seen the light from the sign. But we do have written agreements actually from some of the neighbors, some of the Rolson Street neighbors who are in support of this. And hopefully they will speak today also. OK, and then you just said for the record, you would remove three signs. You're open to removing three existing signs. Yes. Thank you. That's part of this whole process. That's what we're doing. They're doing it, right? Just to be clear. You're doing it. They don't own the signs. Other, there are other, always, these signs. We have all. Yeah, but we have agreements with the property owners. These signs are, they're expired leases. So the land was leased by other billboard companies over the years for 60, 70, 80 years. But we have agreements to compensate the landlords. And you'll hear from one of them today, the other one is not the round to be able to speak. And it was agreed to have this strong billboard sign removed, which is something that, for my past, of listening to neighborhood groups and people who are interested in trying to get no boards removed. This was one of the key signs they said that we're spending all of this money to renovate the strong bidder. And yet, right next to it, you have 1,000 square foot sign. And that's lit in an old fashioned way that there's tons of light trespass and in meeting with some of the counselors in these areas. I also said, this is going to be the way that you can try to eliminate signage in the actual residential neighborhoods is trade it off, trade one, and take down three. This is actually four signs because they've just put two signs together. And we have some historical signs that show it. And they wrapped it to make one sign. So we're putting out one and taking down four. So a big question on those existing signs. So that you have agreements with the land owners to take down both the sign and the infrastructure for those signs. Are these signs sort of on top of buildings, on the ground? And have they agreed to take down the infrastructure so no sign could get put up again? The sign will be taken down to the ground. Or in the case of the strong bidder, it'll be taken down to the roof. We'll replace the roof. And it'll be as if there's no sign there at all. And then the other prevel street sign is made with two ID structures that they haven't made. Bill Boards out of since probably the 1950s. So those will be removed. And the ground will be restored to exactly as if there was absolutely zero sign there before. Great. One thing that I just want to leave the board with also too. This is a great proposal to kill two birds with one stone here. One, we have an organization that's been in existence for over 81 years. That is a complete disarray in a multi-close its do-as. And since we'll allow them to continue to serve this neighborhood and serve this Polish community that's been a vital part, again, of this do-a-trust-of-police triangle. While at the same time we're going to be removing these locations and decluttering billboards from our residential neighborhoods, which again, I think that was the whole intent of the BPA in the city of Boston's vision on billboards. So. OK. Well, we'll take one more question from the board. I just want to be mindful. We're not halfway through our agenda yet. And more of us, Kate, and Sherry, then a question. So guys, I think you've done a great job with getting these billboards out of making your proposal so that we get the billboards out of the neighborhoods and put them in a place that they belong on our highway. So I just want to commend you guys for doing that. We commend the American Polish public doing that as well. I think the billboards belong on main strips, not in people's neighborhoods. Thank you. OK. With that, let me open it up to public testimony. And I'm mindful, Mr. Spitz, if you want to make sure, I know last time, because there are a lot of raised hands and we cannot distinguish them. Please, please guide us. Great. Thank you. I guess Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor, and I'm in with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This time, the Mayor's Office is deferred to the judge of this board. As you previously heard, there has been civic associations, the McCormick's of the Association and Andrew Spirits of the Association have expressed support for this proposal, citing as an opportunity to ensure that the social club stays in the neighborhood. We've also heard from some of the butters that also have raised concerns about light pollution, as well as just the visual love that it would general, without deferred to the board at this time. Thank you. Thank you, Madam Chair, members of the board of all Southern City Council, Vice-Michael Flaredy, through the fact that this proposal will eliminate three real boards in various neighborhoods out front of the city, as well as a fact that it would give both serve to support the post-medium club for years to come, concerted on and support. Good afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the board. I'm the Deputy Council of Memphis Office, the advocate and computer and our community process. It's a quite thorough about this, and civic associations, so because of this, the council would like to go on, at this point. Thank you. I don't elect the official office. I'll turn it to the raised stands of here, and I'm going to speak in favor of opposition, please, raise it in. I'll start with artists and then go to Peter. Can you briefly give your name and address and briefly tell us the appearance of fraud opposition? Hi, my name is Farahas Dessel-Firah. I'm actually the owner of the Assign at the Strand Theatre. I am definitely in support of it. We've gone through some community process myself. The main street, up and corner, main street group at support set. Councillor Tanya Fernandez Anderson supported. The Senator, Elizabeth Miranda supported. And everyone that I know in up and corner supported, it's an eye sore in the community. We would love to have that removed out of there. And I am. I do have a contract with the owners that are putting the sign over the highway. So I was strongly urged that the board supports it. And thank you. Thank you. Peter? All right, thanks everybody. My name is Peter Dessel-Firahas Dessel-Firahas. I am the treasure of the Polish American Fisines Club. Thank you for the chance to let me speak. I just want to quickly talk about it. It's kind of a message that will be very quick. We'll review this as a kind of course altering opportunity for the Polish club. We've had other opportunities in the past to work with sign companies. And we always said no because it wasn't, we felt the right fit for the neighborhood. But this proposal, the thoughtfulness that Peter has team up put into it, the way that it won't impact the neighbors gave us comfort to move forward. And on the flip side of it, the essentially annuity that this would be for the club, allows us to make all sorts of improvements and changes that ensure the club can exist for another 80 plus years. And then off with the neighborhood, the cultural, content and programming that we always wanted to do. And we tried to do it, we took care of the park there, we took our history, we did Polish house with youthies events, we host some neighborhood, poor teams and dominoes teams. But it'll give us out to you just kind of build on that work and take us to the next level. But I can't express how kind of course altering your meeting from the club. So thank you so much. I hope you approve us today. Thank you. Yes. Can you look at a testimony here? I think she was on earlier. I don't see any additional ways. Okay. Yes. Are you looking to get testimony? I sent a request. I'm sorry. I can't get my hand to go down. I'm not going to have a phone. She's here from the case. Okay. Just want to make sure I have no additional. Should we get them in the water? No. Okay. No additional. Okay. Patty. I don't think Jessica can tell. But Patty, I see a hand just raised. Are you a director better? Are you going to get testimony here? I see your hand just raised. Yes. But you can't just raise but we're not a director bother. Are you with the civic association? Yes. With the head or she will have a civic association. Okay. Do you want to be a police team? Yes. I want to be a police team. I want to be a police team. I want to be a police team. I want to be a police team. I want to be a police team. I want to be a police team. I want to be a police team. I want to be a police team. Okay. Do you want to be a police team? Yes. I want to be a police team. The postcard is a 75-year-old cultural institution in the heart of the post triangle. In addition to promoting their ancestral culture, you can often find a list of all walks of life gathering, to share experiences and community. This bill will afford the puppy opportunity to update and maintain the tight and beloved building perhaps preserving its existence. And we didn't underscore a civic association that's wrong to see the billboards removed due to this proposal and hope that you will support it. Thank you. When does the blockies with me if you can just say a couple of words? Hi, everybody on the board. Thank you very much for listening to this. I'm going to make a remark about the BBDA that economists have been using. I'm going to make a remark about the BBDA. I'm going to make a remark about the BBDA. I'm going to make a remark about the BBDA. I'm going to make a remark about the BBDA. I'm going to make a remark about the BBDA. I'm going to make a remark about the BBDA. I'm going to make a remark about the BBDA. I'm going to make a remark about the BBDA. I'm going to make a remark about the BBDA. I'm going to make a remark about the BBDA. I'm going to make a remark about the BBDA. I'm going to make a remark about the BBDA. I'm going to make a remark about the BBDA. I'm going to make a remark about the BBDA. I'm going to make a remark about the BBDA. I'm going to make a remark about the BBDA. I'm going to make a remark about the BBDA. I'm going to make a remark about the BBDA. I'm going to make a remark about the BBDA. I'm going to make a remark about the BBDA. I'm going to make a remark about the BBDA. I'm going to make a remark about the BBDA. I'm going to make a remark about the BBDA. I'm going to make a remark about the BBDA. I'm going to make a remark about the BBDA. I'm going to make a remark about the BBDA. I'm going to make a remark about the BBDA. I'm going to make a remark about the BBDA. I'm going to make a remark about the BBDA. I'm going to make a remark about the BBDA. I'm going to make a remark about the BBDA. I'm going to make a remark about the BBDA. I'm going to make a remark about the BBDA. I'm going to make a remark about the BBDA. I'm going to make a remark about the BBDA. I'm going to make a remark about the BBDA. I'm going to make a remark about the BBDA. I'm going to make a remark about the BBDA. I'm going to make a remark about the BBDA. I'm going to make a remark about the BBDA. I'm going to make a remark about the BBDA. I'm going to make a remark about the BBDA. I'm going to make a remark about the BBDA. I'm going to make a remark about the BBDA. I'm going to make a remark about the BBDA. I'm going to make a remark about the BBDA. I'm going to make a remark about the BBDA. I'm going to make a remark about the BBDA. I'm going to make a remark about the BBDA. I'm going to make a remark about the BBDA. I'm going to make a remark about the BBDA. I'm going to make a remark about the BBDA. I'm going to make a remark about the BBDA. I'm going to make a remark about the BBDA. I'm going to make a remark about the BBDA. I'm going to make a remark about the BBDA. I'm going to make a remark about the BBDA. I'm going to make a remark about the BBDA. I'm going to make a remark about the BBDA. I'm going to make a remark about the BBDA. I'm going to make a remark about the BBDA. I'm going to make a remark about the BBDA. I'm going to make a remark about the BBDA. I'm going to make a remark about the BBDA. I'm going to make a remark about the BBDA. I'm going to make a remark about the BBDA. I'm going to make a remark about the BBDA. I'm going to make a remark about the BBDA. I'm going to make a remark about the BBDA. I'm going to make a remark about the BBDA. I'm going to make a remark about the BBDA. I'm going to make a remark about the BBDA. I feel that the applicant showed evidence of why They were seeking the variance and in terms of They were seeing the variance in terms of Harship. Was Is experiencing. Is experiencing. Is experiencing. Is experiencing. And being able to deliver their services to their community. for the billboard and I believe a condition you can use permit is warranted given that the billboard would not adversely affect the neighborhood and that the technology would not mitigate or minimize nuisance that's created by visual lighting from the billboard. So with that I would like to put a motion of approval with the condition that the applicant removes three billboards as already specified in the locations from neighborhoods. I think that was the only condition and that it has BPD a design review. All right, may I have a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yeah. Mr. Bedavraza. Yes. Mr. Schepger. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Benado. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you very much. Okay. I don't know if I said yes, but just for the record I also would say yes to my own motion. I'm sorry. Did I not call you? I apologize if I did not. Okay. Please make sure that's in the record. Next case. Yes. I'll ask if there are from one clock hearing will there be any withdrawal or credit for withdrawal? I'm just going to remind folks that we are we have still a lot more on our plate so please be rich. Thank you. Are you looking to get testimony benching now? I'm sorry. I'm not testimony. You look at it deferred. Yeah. I see your hand is raised. Oh no. I'm a panelist for the next project. Sorry. Oh, I can't hear it. Thank you. Okay. Mr. Steinberg. We'll be on. The next case is BOA 144 3969. The address of 440 West Second Street. It's the applicant or the representative. Yes, Mr. Steinberg. Thank you. My name is George Forensi. I'm an attorney with a business address of 351 Broadway in Selkhorst and I represent Victoria Bonos and her family, the owner of Unit 3 of the 440 West Second Street condominium. Madam Chair, members, as a refresher, this matter was given a full hearing on June 6. It was deferred because the board was seeking a BBDA recommendation. The representative members who were not sitting on June 6, I don't think this is an identically proposed board. My clients, Unit, is the top floor unit and she's seeking today approval for a private group deck which would be a partner to work unit which is on her occupied size of the deck would be approximately 190 square feet. Access would be provided by me to produce spiral stairway which would be added to an existing rear balcony. So there would be neither a headhouse nor hatch. Again, that access would come from existing reports of the spiral staircase and accessing the roof deck. There are two violations cited. Roof structure restrictions under Section 60H29 and insufficient radio access back. Section 60H29 of Article 58, this is an MFR, about the only residential zone. So, this district makes access to a roof deck by means of a stairway headhouse, a zoning violation requiring a additional use purpose. Whereas access, I mean to the dimensionally compliant hatch would be compliant in terms of Section 29. The intent as I mentioned on June 6 is to discourage the construction of rooftop. Headhouses, two access deck in favor of hatch. Hatch could be no more than 30 inches in height above the roof line. This is the different scenario, a very thin area whereby neither a headhouse nor hatch was being proposed. But again, rather than this spiral staircase from that existing report which could be seen here on the side elevation. So this does not add another roof structure to the deck but takes advantage of that existing deck access in the rear. Finally, the rear setback violation is exceptionally minimal. The rear required rear setback is from tier 15 feet. The only reason why this is even cited because there is a, I say, already a rear porch which is in a required rear setback area is because one, it is just a very edge of the deck and the spiral staircase itself is also within that setback area. But no more so than the existing rear decks or rear proportions. And I believe this is the answer that is likely to be held here. But after June 6th, I did confirm that the BPS recommendation which I'm sure you don't speak to was approval with design review. With that, I'll pause and take any questions. Thank you. Any questions from the board? I'm going to ask for hold of testimony. Good afternoon, Madam Chair. My members of the board have an away with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. Oh, and I suppose student of butter tweeting for four or four of us second on April 26, 2023. On half, the dozen of butter attended the meeting. Three stated that they opposed the project mainly due to fear of future noise and want to butter vocalize their support at the meeting. Additionally, we have received 16 letters in support and five opposition, including one from the St. Vincent's neighborhood association. At this time, we'd like to defer judgment to the board. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board are on a call and some kinds of President, Queen's office. The council would like to grant a break or in a position to feedback from neighbors, the same Vincent's neighborhood association. In his long-standing policy of opposing reflection, residential neighborhoods of our Boston doing the pandemic and the president, fleeing and considered slavery of both society and scale. So the same is still fine for large parties that were caught in the flood issues of hours of the night. For our seniors, person with disabilities, job families and neighbors, council president, Flangwart, with Boston police six six to answer many of these problems, property, calls from concern neighbors to the summer and found moved next to often to the source of the issue. As a result, he joined his neighbors and the groups in South Boston, and remained supposed to add in to existing quality of life issues in the neighborhood, and I started working with these concerns from the community seriously. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board are also on the city council of ours and they're acquiring some instruments of public loan promise, as well as I have the 68 violations passed during our conversation. And Madam Chair, have you raised hands at the moment? Okay, was that me? I have a motion? Madam Chair, I would like to make a motion to approve the project. May I have a second? I'll take a minute. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Berraza? No. Mr. Shepard? Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Mr. Panado? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Chair, also votes yes and motion carries. Thank you. Next, we have case B081475285, the address of the legal authority. Is the applicant and or the representative? Yes. Good afternoon, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Gembertard Lynn's business address of 245 Sumner Street East Loss. I'm here on behalf of the position or repeal of development. I can probably jump right into slide two at a time of society where we need genders, so I'm going to get right to it. Madam Chair, this board may remember this was likely the first case that it would be possible to report back in January. We are proposing a four-story and three-inter residential dwelling on the existing lot and demolishing existing garage. The board at that time had raised a concern or a height of our building indicated that the preference based upon the surrounding neighborhood context was to see something not at four stories. We can jump down to slide the limits of four or five. Next slide, please. One more slide. Since that hearing, we had gone back and we designed this project to building up the building as the gray with the white bump of the front. We are proposing to modify our original proposal for four stories to three. This will allow for the redevelopment of this site with a three-family building. Three residential units versus allow use in the district. This being a three-on-two-thousand district, three-family is permitted. There is no further change, other than what we originally proposed, other than the height. We do still incorporate a roof deck. We don't require a head house to access that to the access of the roof deck. We have a three-room apartment, each room, hatch, and exclusive to unit three. The unit size is range from about 810 to about 820 square feet each. There are all four closes, one bedroom, but we could simply reorient some of these to allow for either a one plus or a two bedroom. We do believe that as a one bedroom, this does provide some more affordable opportunity, not necessarily affordable housing or affordable opportunity for smaller units or people who are looking for a ownership. This is intended for as three residential condo units. In addition to the proposed project, we will be closing up the driveway that present the existence of the site, which will add additional honesty parking. I know we did have a chance to also review this with the VpNM, our service to Hampton's here. I believe last time the VpD's recommendation was denied, and that prejudice based upon the height, I believe that that recommendation has now been revised to recommend approval with the sign of the office. I also believe we did have some people seeking favor of this. I know as we got later in the day, I did lose a few of them, but I know there are 14 letters of support, including the Civic Association on file with the Port of appeal. I will pause there for a moment and see if the board has any specific questions and address anything on the plans. Thank you. All right. Any questions from the board? No, but I really do appreciate the internal hatch access to the Merch deck that will eliminate the noise. And I do want to just confirm for board members reading the VpD recommendations. That's the recommendation from the original proposal in December. So they do not have unless Mr. Hampton has any recommendation. It's not included. Thank you Madam Chair. Members of the board, Jeff Hampton, VpD. I'd like to confirm what Attorney Lynn said. That original recommendation I believe was from January. It took our recommendations to hardness. It's a good example of a case taking our recommendation that we would have originally denied and revamped the plan. So I would like to go on record for approval with design review on this. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? If you're in none, may I have a vote of the testimony? Yes, Madam Chair. Members of the board, the following move on to the mayor's office of neighborhood services. This time the mayor's office is deferred to the judgment of this board. It's about the information in the community process. Oh, yes, those are the bloodstreaming on March 31st. I know bloodstreaming attendance. They after them went on to meet with the Maverick Central Neighborhood Association or the Association for the Support. I would doubt it deferred to the board at this time. Thank you. Good afternoon. I'm Chair Members of the board. And it's a fashion profile from Councillor Colossus office based on the community process and the bulletin support from our extension committee. It's in the association. The council will have to go on support of this part of this. Thank you. Madam Chair, may I have a vote of the persons who can testify in the right hands of the very might in sport? I'll open the public testimony, the mark in the end. Can you please tell us if there was a photo opposition? I'll say your name and address. Hi, good afternoon, everyone. My name is Mark Sharaffa and I am in support of this project. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board for the record. My name is Ed DeValle. I'm a film and member of the Sony Board of Appeal. I hope you're all doing well. I am also in a better at 61 Work Street, which is just around the corner, about 100 yards from this project. I am in full support. It provides much needed housing and what's been a very underserved use is just a standalone garage. It is in close proximity to the airport and META station. It's in walking distance and I believe it is a very appropriate use for the location and for the neighborhood. And I ask that you look favorably upon it. Thank you. Are you joining? Yes. Can you hear me? Yes. My name is Ron Jojo. I am owner of 308 Paris Street East Boston Unit 2. I'm also the Treasurer for the Condo Association. The reason I am against this construction is if you expand the width of this building, it will be directly impeding my access to my backyard. I will not be able to escape safely if there is an emergency because that is the only access into the rear of my building. As well as it will be doing the same to the residents at 306 Paris Street. Besides that, I appreciate the moment the high-end areas. That's very considerate. But like I said, I feel like it's a health-coded violation or a health and safety violation, as well as the master D. Has it written in that my backyard needs to be accessible through that passageway? Thank you very much for your time. And like I said, I would very much appreciate your denial of this due to my safety concerns. Madam Chair, I'm pretty pleased I will respect that. Can we just finish the public testimony and then, yes, please, after that. I have no additional waiting to answer. Okay. Mr. Woods. Thank you. So with respect to access, the current conditions, I'm not aware that it is meant rights, etc. With that said, however, I would point out to the board that we do set our building back three feet from the property line, which is sufficient access. Certainly we have no issue if there's emergency access needed for the rear of this property to get out public way. I don't believe where we have any issue by way of necessity for that emergency access. So our building is designed to allow for our own access to the back of our building. I don't believe there's any specific issue safety wise with respect to access to their buildings, well, even though there may not be the title rights for that, we don't force any problem with allowing emergency access to that one more time. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Karen, none may have a notion. I'm going to approve with BVD design review. Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Mr. Temperidge. Yes. Ms. Betabraza. Yes. Mr. Shepard. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Sonato. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries the luggage. Thank you very much. Thank you. All right. Now I'll just walk. Now we want to 1 PM here. First of being in case of the 08, 148, 2725. The address of the 247, 251 Ncon Street, which is a BPA R8 project is the applicant and what their representative. And I'm going to again ask for the ready. We have three article 80s in a row. So please be mindful. Thank you. Understood. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is Joe Hannah Schneider. I'm with the law from the Pembleway Abirm 75 State Street 9 Council for the applicant. I'm with the current IRQC. I'm joined today by the law from IRQC and also by the Coleman from Rodi Architects. We are here today seeking zoning relief for a 47 unit residential apartment building at 247 Pemt Ncon Street, in Dorchester. The site is in approximately 16,500 square foot parcel that currently houses a car wash. It is right across the street from the site of the new dot walk development. It is also adjacent to another multi-family building at 233 Hancock Street, which is also owned by the applicant. As you can see from the site, context photos of one of both his site for please, due to the existing car wash use that currently occupies the site, there is a significant curb cut. It's about 76 feet long on the site. And this car wash does contribute to a significant amount of vehicular traffic on Hancock Street. The project proposes to replace this car wash and curb cut with a new residential building. The building will be five stories along Hancock Street and six stories to the rear of the site. At its highest point, the building will be 67 feet, six inches tall. It will have an FAR of 2.9. There will be 47 units of piece 60% of which will be affordable at the 60% I AMI level or below. And more than 70% of the units within the development will be family sized units. We are very proud that this project was one of the first in the city to receive from the mayor's office of housing and affordable housing accelerations or to pick up. Overall, the building will be approximately 48,000 square feet and will be providing approximately 1500 square feet of new landscape public green space. The project will have 18 onsite parking spaces and 57 onsite secured bicycle parking spaces. And this is part of a very deliberate strategy to take a really progressive approach to both transit and mobility. In addition, the project will incorporate numerous sustainability measures. It will be all electric and it will have solar and it actually installs on the roof, not just solar ready. We've had a robust community process around this proposal. That's included in number of meetings with the neighborhood and elected officials over the last year plus we have provided to the board 29 letters of support. This includes letters from five of letters as well as the Hancock Street Civic Association. I understand we are short on time. I think at this point, term was over the River of Eclam and from roadie to walk through the plans where I can go straight into the zoning relief we need where we can just take questions from the board. Madam Chair, I take my direction from you. Thank you. Let's go to questions and see if that leads us to any of your other slides. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? So you have 29 or 62% income restricted units. Are there subsidies attached to those? Yes, there will be. And if I can ask Benji Paul, who's on the line with me to provide a little bit more detail about the funding sources for the project? Sure, we hope so. We're working in tandem right now with the mayor's opposite housing. It's anticipated that this will be funded by a roll of housing tax credit. So at a very bare minimum of projects, will be 60% affordable, below 60% of AMI. We anticipate that those levels won't increase as we continue to work through the mayor's opposite housing and the state process in terms of our tax credit. So we're worth through it, since you provide the death and breadth of affordability here. Great, thank you. There are other questions from the board. You're not going to go to public just money. Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Carn, you've been with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. The sound mayor's office links to further to the judgment of this board. As you heard previously, this went through a robust DPA community process. There were some concerns raised from some of the butters about parking, but there were also many voices that were excited about adding more housing to this part of the Rochester. The album, it's in contact with the Meaning House Hill of Civic Group, as well as the handcuffs of the association which voted to support this proposal without referring to the board at this time. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Joan Gekren, City Councilor, and the committee's office who links more reckon and support. Thank you, Emily. Madam Chair, have you looked at any other reasons? All right, then. What's that? We have a motion. I make a motion to approach with BPTA design review. Madam, a second. Sorry, could I? Mr. Scuperidge. Yeah. Ms. Betaparaza. Yes. Mr. Shepard. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Panado. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Chair, also votes yes. Motion carries. Thank you. Thank you very much. I appreciate it. Thank you. And I would ask Mr. Ross to do the same in the next case. Thank you. Getting to it then, case three away, 145-10131, at just being 60, 70, new Avenue, on WR-308. Yeah. Yeah, the kid was the raw, but someone else could. This is Salman Chattery. I'll be leading the team. OK. Great. Director Nguyen Madam Chair and Honorable Board members, my name is Salman Chattery. I lead at 51 Hatchin Street in Dorechester, which is one block away from the government that we are seeking approval. Not only we lead in the neighborhood, we are also a big delivery of investing in the neighborhood in the community where we live. You will see through our investment in Dudley Cafe and Shanty Express in New Vietnam Square and multiple Shanty locations in Dorechester and Rosendale. We are a big deliver also creating the ownership opportunity that creates generational well in the community. This is why we are really passionate about creating units that people from the community can buy in. With that, I wanted to introduce my team. On their order, we also live in Dorechester, who has been helping me through the last two years of community process. And I also have Alpanso Cera, who's offices in Charleston, that our architect under, I'm going to take over. Thank you. So just as a reminder, please be grief. This has done to an honorable email. I will be very brief. This is going to be a walkthrough with the presentation, giving the highlights. As you can see, it's a 15-unit building in Papalos, homo-ship. But you see now, it is with this curly there, a single-story building. The plan is to retain that building and build four stories above. And the first floor will be used as on-site parking. Next, please. This is the rear of the building. So the front is on the people Avenue. The rear front is on the rear. If I turn to the most the road. And there is an existing garage exit door there now. Next, please. This is the Ringgrain. We also struck an MPUTA bus stop. Part community benefits is to improve and make the bus stop seating more user-friendly and just bring a more aesthetic appeal to what is now lacking. When you'll see next slide, what we're doing is the building will be on the old-field roadside. Once the exit for the garage and entrance and then it'll step up to five stories as you move to the front of the garage, the Avenue. That way, the old-field road of butters will be looking down on the deck of the garage. And that won't mitigate any light or any sun disruption. Next, please. We are proposing 50 units. It will be a mixture. It will be four studios, ever size 500 square feet. 21 bedrooms ranging from 600 800 square feet. 22 bedrooms on average 900 square feet. And at the request of the officials, we've also added a family-slashiness. We have six three bedrooms and roughly 1,200 square feet. And there will be 17 on-site parking spaces. Next, please. Just different renderings that show the building from different angles. Next, please. Next. Just some of the landscaping we're going to do. We have had a few public meetings. We do want to have outdoor roof jack space. We have committed to not using any astroturf, but being very sensitive to the environment and health standards. And but overall, provide outside space on some of the roofs of the upper levels, as well as improving the project of the building along the avenue with the bus stop. I believe that's the last slide. OK. Thank you. This is my question. Sorry. I was going to see if there are questions from the board. And you speak to sustainability? Some of the from previous meetings, we are trying to talk about putting solar panels on the roof to help, particularly with the operating costs of the units and reducing utility costs of some of the operating other than that. It will be a new construction. So we'll meet all the energy efficiency and requirement that's by the city or the city. And I see that big blank gray wall. Is that what the pedestrians will experience walking by this building? No. That's a side view. If you were to walk between the building proposed and the butter to the right. So on top of the building, there's existing one-story arch also that's a separate owner and they are operating. On the right side of the building, there's some landscaping. But it is an existing building that just we are. Is that gray block as an existing building that you're depicting? Yes, but that gray wall can continue all the way across. So I don't know how that gray wall got there, but that's not a brick wall can continue all the way throughout the building. The first floor is this thing, 17,000 sports but building, single-story building. OK. Does it look like what's on top? What's on top? So the up top will be the new construction. OK. And the gray wall will be there. It will be break. It will be break hits. Yeah, can you go to the site plan? Just for reference. Yeah, that would be all for. I don't think we have other than the front edge. I don't think we have. There's no one that defines the picture that's on top of you. That's basically the existing footprint of the building, the marked area. And the green space that you see that will be on top of the existing single-story building that's there. So the elevation we're seeing is to the left, right? Is the west? Yes. Yeah. So what's a budding that red base is it seems like there's parked lots and then there's a building adjacent to it. That's right out. Right. That is that continued as a as-break. But it seems like from this site plan that there's an existing building to the left of that brick wall. Well, there's an existing building to the left of this site. You can see it in the front. The glass of the sun. Right. But that is the existing one. One-star building. Right. That's why I think it's great out. Because really you're looking at that plant as almost like the party wall today. It's something to me. So you want to look to the far left that lights in the water. Right. That's the existing building. So I'm just trying to help my colleague. I see. I see. It's been out of. It's an exciting. Thank you. OK. I think we got that clear. All right. It's my fault for the site politics. Any new questions? Any other questions? All right. Hearing that, can we take over testimony? Afternoon. My name is Amanda. I'm a board. I actually go into the office and do the services. This project is good to go to the BPD a community process. Our office was reached out by my co-surf from Project Right in the Rockway neighborhood council. With overwhelming opposition on this project, they built up the buses who was fundamentally flawed at the start of this project. They stayed at the developer bypassed, existing neighborhood resident association who represents the butter residents. To this project, lastly, the developer on the met-one-through-piece associations in their butteres in this meeting did not address to the concerns on high intensity of this project. The Rockway neighborhood council is opposed to this project. That would be a great support. Is the project manager on for this? Yes. My name is Scott Greenhall. I'm a project manager at the BPA. I'm filling in for Quinn Valsace on this project. The project was filed with BPA on June 29, 2022, and successfully completed the R-clai-ty process. This process included two BPA sponsored public meetings. The BPA board approved the BPA board approved the project on November 17, 2022. The project received support from the group hall, neighborhood development corporation, dirtists are going together, analytic officials, those in the public meeting, and in our online comment period. Thank you. But I think the reason why you were brought was to answer the community concern regarding not including the Rockway neighborhood council in that review process. Can you comment on that? This is for the project manager. Trisco. Understood. I do believe there was opposition from one particular member arguing that the project did not meet with the Civic Association before filing. However, that participant did receive the project filing notification in public meeting announcement in time and was able to engage with the project throughout the duration of the review. And the project team did present to that Civic Association in August 2022. Yeah. Let's keep going. I see some public officials. Good afternoon, Madam Chair. Members of the board, my name is I am Nia. We were with the Office of the Council for Underworld in regards to 1670, Geneva Avenue. But as I previously, there is one that obsessions from the budding Civic Intervalanormity, mostly due to the design and the process. The applicant has made several attempts to include housing at home, up ownership in his proposal. And with that, he also added a green roof. So without that being said, the Council would like to go and support this proposal, but with the provider of BPD, his own review. Okay. Good afternoon, Madam Chair. I'm a bit of a board. I enjoyed it for you. I see it from Council of the Colorado Royal's Office. We too like to go on a recording support. Thank you. Good afternoon. My name is Elizabeth Slater and I'm in the office of Council of the Resent, Louisiana. I would like to go on a recording support. Thank you. You don't have any other public officials. I'll turn it over to public testimony. We have quite a few raised hands up. Dennis, we're going to go test on you. Okay. I'll go to my second. It's time to go test on you, my name. Hi, my name is Michael Coulsey, project right, 320A, blue way I'm new. I just want to note that Action Street is half a mile away from the site and I'm one block away just for clarification. We also want to note that this development did not meet with the Rothburg National Council as required by Article 50. We have a number of different issues on this. We do not think the garage should go on to Old Strait Road. Old Strait Road is one way dead end. It is a narrow two way dead end street where parking on both sides is very congestive out there. It is far and emergency vehicles have to respond. They have to come in from Geneva A. And address on this is anyway is Geneva A. So the main entrance and garage should be on Geneva A. Five stories. 50 units next to on this street on both Geneva A and Old Strait Road and Old Strait Road is 33 of 37 residential buildings are two family houses. The two family houses next to this structure on both Old Strait and Geneva A. We are going to be overwhelmed by this and then a potential similar type development on A. Geneva A. They are going to be overshadowed and overwhelmed in terms of this process. We feel that there is a number of different things. Keisha Santana offered to host another meeting for a fall discussion. We agreed to it but we never heard back from the development. I think there is still a lot of impact and a lot of concerns from the bloody neighbors in terms of how they are going to address a number of these issues that haven't been addressed. Thank you. So we are opposed to it. Thank you. I am sorry. This is Dennis Patrick. Oh, I don't know. Yes. I am strongly in favor of the project. If you walk down around this building, it is a rather isolated across the street from a beautiful algorithm. I like the fact that it helps ownership. I like the fact that it is currently a back-owned church that has been trying to sell this for several years and then working with a developer. I like that it is a back developer that lives in the area and has been in the area for almost 20 years. And also the fact that it is quite friendly and he has been adding a green roof and other things to help the community from the community. Thank you. Can you put your address into the record? Yes. My address is 15 of Railroad in Boston. Thank you. Thanks for the question. I am sorry. I am sorry. I am Connie Forbes representing the bathroom neighbor council and to be clear in the last meeting, public meeting, the VPA, the proponents said they would come before the right for a neighbor council. And that did not happen. And static, I am so sorry. They agreed to come before the right for a neighbor council. That did not happen. And also when listening this project, it is listed as 60-70, a neighbor avenue, and the VPA have all the records in the beginning at 66, a neighbor avenue. So there is a bit of disconnect in what the project site is. So we would like to request that you have this matter go back to the community for community input for questions that were never answered. So we are just hearing today the actual traffic has been removed. That was a question that was posed before. We also have questions about the shadow study which is put in after the last VPA meeting. So we have to go back to the residents and say, these shadows are going to be cast over your building because they are exceeding the height by 20 feet for that area. And there is no identified hardship. So the VPA has approved it, but the VPA, when they get cases, there has to be a identified substantial hardship. And it cannot be financial because we are not responsible for making someone bring in areas of being as whatever it is. But there has to be a substantial hardship. Thank you. Any other rainstands Jessica? I think we never do anything for you. Hi, my name is Nathan Lorton of one of three wells avenue at Dorchester. I am speaking in support of this proposal both as an individual and as a representative of the group of Dorchester's own together. This proposal provides a machine housing and location that is both suited for this increased unit density and lower off the parking ratio. As it is well connected by transit located next to the commercial district along Blue Hill, Ohio, in Grove Hall. And it provides easy access to green space at Franklin Park. And this is very interesting for anybody to buy the board today. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I have no additional waste. Thank you. Is there anything the applicant wishes to respond to before we go? In terms of the community process, we have done two years of community process. We have done 14 different meetings. We met with multiple neighborhood association. The project, right. That's we have reached out to many times with emails that we never got response back. And Andre can send those proof that we reached out to multiple emails to come back and present to them. I live in that community. I have no problem doing as many neighborhood meetings as it's required. If the board likes to go ahead and approve the plan and one bit to go present in front of the R&C, I don't have a problem with that. In terms of we follow the process that the BPD took the lead on in terms of like setting up some of the meetings. And we basically followed the article 80 process that was laid out in the Mandarin, I don't know if you wanted anything else. I know. I think you said it's fine. Thank you. Okay. Any fire questions from the board? Here in Nunmay, I have a motion. I'll share a link to make a motion for approval of the BPD in design of the room. And I will second. Second. Mr. Stambridge. Yes. Is better Baza. Yes. Mr. Shepard. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Panado. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. I hope you have a motion. Thank you. Thank you very much. Next. Next we have. Next we have case BOA 1475349. The address of the three six one, seven three. Applicant and the other representative. But. I'm sure I need to leave it to the same from this project. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Next. Next we have. Next we have case BOA 1475349. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. And why you said you only get below an hour or leaving, that is your place at Taikou, You know, my rent in Yunou less than 30 years I think you yes. Outreach in the community, many voices were very supportive of the repurposing of this building to add affordability to neighborhood. And we understand that it received full support from the JPMC without deferred to the board. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Paul Sal, and C. Fanzo Alay, and I'm glad you're in the Council on the implementation of this board. I'm Gai Akshine, Madam Chair, members of the board, Q&C, and I'm from Council on the Marquis Office. The applicant went through a therapeutic process. It's a quite indirect matter of its neighbors because of the 55-bit board of the units. 6500 square feet of community space and positive benefits for the community. The Council would like to go on a permanent support. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. My name is Elizabeth Slater, and I'm testifying on behalf of the Office of Council in the new gen. And I would like to go on a permanent support. Thank you. Close. Hi, my name is Curtis Klaven. I'm a resident and owner of the economy unit at 25 Prairie Street Number 4. I'm on the Blessed Sacrament campus. I was the first to move onto the campus in 2009 after our redevelopment began. I want to, overall, endorse this proposal. I think it's great, and it's overdue when it would be great for the community. And in neighborhood, I have one concern that I raised at previous meetings, which is my understanding with the existing site plan is that, and some of the variances that are being sought are, there are two variances with regard to the rear yard addition and the side yard being insufficient. The area is a park and center of the campus that has been there, and has been accessible to the community. It's the backyard for six of the other buildings that are on the campus and available publicly to people throughout the community for events. I do believe that the current proposal would allow the church building to take ownership of that in a way where they would be splitting the space, which is a contiguous green space with paths for access to the church, and would also put in additional landscaping that might basically guard the park from other entry. And I would hope that this whole proposal could move forward, but potentially with the proviso that that space being made available with design provisions perhaps that would allow it to continue to be accessed as a backyard for the six other units and buildings on the property. And the members of the community, the real final thing is that I do believe that the structure of the condominium association, including that building and the other buildings on campus, puts us in a position where, as the only owner occupants that are moving on the campus, we really want the ability to stop or change any redesignation of that green floor. So I would really hope that in this form and others that there would be a proviso to provide an encourage to the developers whom I hope will be great neighbors going forward to consider that and keep the park accessible. Thank you. Thank you. Any other raise tanks? Do you have... No, but several of these teams think you have. Does the applicant wish to respond to that before we take a vote? I mean, I can talk about John Green, legal, clarification, so I can start about the process. Plan? I think the way I should go with that. We should be, he just raised with respect to that. Absolutely. That's the only thing I, if you could address that, though. If we can put Charlie, I can address parts of that as much as I know. Yeah, but let me just... Yeah, just a few thousand foot level. Yes, this is an area that is owned by the Journal of Economic Economy. Our goal has always been to try to make it so it's more welcoming and more friendly to the community. And this is our attempt to try to do that. We have heard different pieces of feedback on trying to alter it and completely open and meddle with that. That area still can be a work in progress and try to figure out what works best for the community. So we're taking a shot at it and then we've gotten some feedback and we'll keep refining it until we get it, get it, get it where people are all on board. So it's not an impediment for the project and it's something we'll keep working on with everybody. Any other questions from the board? I think there are none. Can I have a motion? Motion to approve with BPDA design review. Yeah, I'm excited. Okay, Mr. Stumbridge. Yes. Ms. Bervaza. This is a really great project. Yes. Thank you. Mr. Shepard. Yes. Ms. Panato. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Chair also votes yes, motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Thank you. Next we have case B08, 1466, 320, with the address being 465 East A's Street. Is the applicant and or zero representative? Yes, good afternoon. Madam Chairman, Ms. LeBorne, Mark LeCas, LeCas, law 75 Marling, Constituent Boston. I'm the attorney for the applicant, which is the Bernalde Peace Company and on the meeting as well as just a Bernalde and no APs, the principles of the company and this proposal. Before you, this is only a co-refusal letter and I promise to keep my presentation commensurate with the scope of this project, which is quite simple. As you can see, there helped the letter piece. There is only one zoning issue, which is the Roost Structure Restriction provision under Article 68 Section 29, which is the conditional use permit rather than a variance, which requires a conditional use for any additions on roofs in South Boston. So this is an existing two-story building in a row of, and a neighborhood of three-story buildings across the street, next door of a down the street. There are all three-story buildings, but this building is only two-story, so essentially we're just filling in the missing tooth of that third story on this building with a proposal for a 624 square foot addition. We have an addition on top of the roof, which will connect to the lower floor unit to create a duplex unit and add 624 square feet of living space. We could go to slide 14 or 15 in that show the elevations that explains everything quite clearly. Here we go. So this is front elevation on the left. The proposed addition is the third story on top of the existing two-story, and on the right is a side elevation, and we brought the rooftop addition. We pulled it in three feet from the edge of the roof line to comply with the side yard setback requirement. Next slide is another elevation, which shows the other angles. So on the left is the rear elevation. There's currently one unit in the lower level, which is the full walkout basement apartment, because of the slope of the land. The next floor about that is the second unit, and then the top two floors, the existing second and the top. The third will be a duplex unit, and on the right elevation you just see the side lower level unit, next floor up and on the duplex with the addition on the top. That concludes my presentation. Thank you Mr. Ocas. Any questions from the board? Okay, now can I put up a testimony? Good afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the board. I'm Anna Wave at the Nair Zamas in Neighborhood Services. Oh, and I host a no-butters meeting for 465 East-Ape and June 8, 2023. Multiple of letters attended the meeting. The six who spoke all localized or support for the project. At this time, it's a different judgment to the board. Thank you very much. We have found the amount of the shareholders members of the board, Anna Calderon, some council press left-wing office. The councilor would like to go on recurring support based on a group community process and with faith compromises with the neighbors, including removal of the rooflets from the proposal. The councilor respectfully request that the team continue to work with neighbors on any quality of live issues during the construction phase. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, also we will see the councilor lodging the clarity. The acknowledging that we want the women to drop in part 68. The outpagers that do have merit and consent fees. This is one of them. That being said, he was in press with the community process and they joined us to work with the neighbors and the partners. In that being said, the councilor doing what they can support. Madam Chair, I have no waste hands. Here with that man, motion. Madam Chair, I would like to put forward a motion of approval with the PDA Design Review, paying special attention to the exterior detailing to the project. Okay. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Berraza. Yes. Mr. Shuffer. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Panado. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Chair on the votes. Yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you again. Thank you, everyone. Next, we have the case of the OA 146-3156. The address of 524-E7 Street. Is that what we missed in the rent? Yes. Thank you, Mr. Stembridge. That's the new Madam Chair. I'm members of the Board. My name is George Marancy. I'm a attorney with the business address of 350 West Broadway in Telaforth. And my client is Rick LaPara on the 3 Family Home 524. Which is East. That was Street Mrs. and M. F. R. Malte family residential zoning sub district. Madam Chair, members. My client's backyard is essentially a bit of an island in a sea of residential parkings surrounding his property. A number of years ago, this residential parking was approved by the sport by a client who did not vote. Did he impact the court in it? Because like Mr. Bokeh, everybody else, I think, in the area, recognized the need to create some additional offspring parking. And supported the project, who went forward. At this time, what he would like to do is take advantage of the two existing girth cuts in the two travel lines over which he would be granted an easement by the owner to enable parking behind the, yes, I was at 524, 7th Street. Four spaces were proposed. That may have been overshooting in a bit. I am aware of the recommendation of the Boston Planning Development Agency. And I have been in contact with Jeff Hansen before this area. I am aware of the additional comment in the BPS recommendation of reducing the proposed number of spaces to tree and adding adequate landscaping and state walkways for the operation of the vehicle that would be parked in these spaces. I just speak to my client for this hearing and he understands it fully agrees with those recommendations of the BPTA and would absolutely accept them. As the piezover on the board will prove this matter, with that, I'll pause and take any questions that any member may have. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Sorry, go ahead. Ms. Vaggett, we do have comments from the BTT, maybe the cornygeners want to, that the end of the car, ending gap parking spaces should be two spaces for them purpose. And there should be two elected changing spaces, chargers spaces should be at two. Mrs. Ferdinand, does this for this project at the southern street? Yes. Okay. Do you want to respond? I, my claim, I would have posed to the state question that you did not have here. I don't, this is an existing tree family and I guess it most for looking at three residential parking spaces for residents. So I just, I don't know how to respond to the comments. I don't know if they're appropriate for this proposal. That's fine. Any other questions from the board? Hearing none, let's take public testimony. Good afternoon Madam Chair, members of the board. I'm Anna White with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. Owen asked hosting a butters meeting for 524 East Simmons Street on May 30th, 2023. No, but there's a time for the meeting. We're unaware of any concerns about this project. At this time we'd like to defer judgment to the board. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you Madam Chair. Thank you Madam Chair. Thank you Madam Chair. Thank you Madam Chair. Thank you Madam Chair. Thank you Madam Chair. Thank you Madam Chair. Thank you Madam Chair. Thank you Madam Chair. Thank you Madam Chair. Thank you Madam Chair. Thank you Madam Chair. Thank you Madam Chair. Thank you Madam Chair. Thank you Madam Chair. Thank you Madam Chair. Thank you Madam Chair. Thank you Madam Chair. Can you answer the question and help give me a hypothetical issues in municipal transportation park. Thank you. Give me theetoid where I can start famous and z buy me something big to support. Thank you. Any other ways. Okay. Okay. We hear this. Okay. Just confund ES. Are you here to get testimony on this? One or two? Sorry. My computer is awful today. No, I'm from Canada. I apologize. That's fine. That's next. Okay. Madam Chaconant, good question. Yes. Okay. I have to say that I do not have to do it. I've been through a lot of things, but I just feel like I'm in terms of the whole parking parking lot. And it brought me to question what would prevent those that are parking already in the other lot to not park in your space? What type of signage? Or how would they know since you're sharing the same the water all obviously fine. So you know it would be the same it would prevent anybody from parking in the space in the lot that it is in his or her space. Okay, so there it is. Okay. Okay. Yeah. They they they they are I did they were recognized. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Any other questions on the board? Okay. Would that be a motion? Madam Charlie to prefer a motion of approval with a motion. Yes. Mr. Sherford. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Panna. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Chair also votes yes motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Next we have case B.O.A. once or nine one nine six zero. The address of 1719. Barrett Avenue. It's the applicant and will be represented. Yes. So Jennifer. And Peter. Good afternoon Madam Chairman. I was about to board. Can you hear me? This is a burns project for mine. Okay. Can you introduce yourself and what may be through our case today? I'd also like to request that John B. D. goes to the B.P. Development with us. Also, the young unit is going to be present at plans after it's saved a few words. Business address for both of us would be 599 East Broadway in South Boston. I did just want to introduce the project and save few things to address all current endpoints, but I'll try to be brief, because I know we are over time. Before you today, with the goal of two townhouse students that will be an extension of the existing row of four townhouses along the northern side of Barrett Avenue, the two units that we're proposing today are to be situated on lots of the exact same sides, shaped dimension, and location as those where the existing four townhouses sit today. Those four existing townhouses were approved by this board 2016, and the board's own boards. This proposal presents a reasonable use of the land that is consistent with other multi-family structures in the area. It proposed a lot while undersized for the sub-discord as Namo Las comparable to many other developed lots in the area. We have undergone significant community process over the last year and a half, and throughout this time, we made significant changes to our project with feedback from the neighborhood. Those changes have included a bit of an element that did two reductions in height, reduction in density, reduction in bedrock count, ad parking, increased setbacks, and increased open space. Although we have not been able to appease everyone, I understand that we will have some comments in opposition this afternoon. We do have support from several direct debaters for whom letters of support have been shared with this board. With that, I humbly submit our project to the discretion of the board, and I turn things over to John to take us through the plans. Thank you, Adam. Thank you, Madam Chair and members of the board. My name is John B.D., you have a possible and a proper use of that word, Madam. I'm delighted this is best possible, as it's a broad space for our plan. This is an extension of the existing road houses that send you bare avenue. Previously, our building was three stories. We had since reduced to two stories we had, two garage parking spaces in both units, and we since moved those spaces to the grade front. As you can see on the bottom left, our outlined cyclone. These are three bed, three bath units, and I want to reiterate that these are condominium drawing units, and these will not be rentals. These are intended for young families, and other families in the south-boss area. Next slide, please. You can see our building ahead of the gray. And this is just another representation of our site, and you can see the three cars at the top-clang bottom. Next slide, please. Thank you. This was a quick shout-out setting put together. The top rendering shows the shadow cast fire building during the winter solstice, as the middle of the blue line, and then our shadow study for the summer solstice in the bottom rendering, again, shows the shadow cast fire building. Next slide, please. And the rest of the presentation shows rendering, so here is the building head-on. On the other side of the air avenue, and on the bottom, 200 images show the building from the perspective, here is the rear of the building. Our building is fully aligned with the existing houses. So in the front and rear, and the renderings of the bottom indicate where the building looks like from the small street called Shepham Terrace. And lastly, the last slide shows our elevations compared to the existing warehouses on the air avenue. With that, I'll pause for questions. We'll just go back to the previous slide. What is that? So what's on the other side of the alleyway? Is that another house, is that correct? Which injuries do you have? Your top image with the two people in it, just on the right side, that little one. And sure, do you mean to the right-hand side where the ground fences? Yeah. What is it? Shepham Terrace is on the other side of that. So there was two budding brick. You can actually see them. You look at the image in the middle bottom. There's view from Shepham Terrace, looking at the three-story townhouses that are existing along the baritabinue there. OK. And in one of your earlier slides, you proposed three parking spaces. Can I understand where you're putting them? Because they look like they're right on the street where great-nics is someone else's property. They are going to be on a section of our property. We're proposing an extension of baritabinue, which is a private way to accommodate the frontage for these two townhouse units. And the three on-grade parking spaces are on our property. OK. What do you mean by extension of baritabinue? Meaning to pay the further or what do you mean? Meaning to pay the end of the street, yes. OK. Other questions from the board? Is that probably what kind of is in the front of that building? Is it green space? Is it already paved? What does it look like now? Up until a couple of days ago, the current owner was utilizing it as a gravel parking lot. OK. OK. Through the chair. So on the slide that we're looking at now, that's Shepton Terrace, or how close is the next house? How wide is that alleyway, man? So the right-hand side is three feet from our property line. Shepton Terrace, those buildings are set back about two to three feet from the property line. So total distance would be about five or six feet. Other questions from the board? I mean, I think it's a unique sighting of the property. But what's interesting is that the three parking spaces is almost like front-yard parking. And so I'm wondering, would you be open to decreasing to two parking spaces so to allow a nicer entry for the two units and to push the two parking spaces to the left, which is a second. Absolutely. Absolutely. We wouldn't be one happy to have. Because it feels like it's missing the front, right? And right now, the way that you're designing it is to having almost two rear. There's no front to your rear. Oh, that's a fair assessment. And you're going to be open for that. Thank you. And one more question. Just because I can't get that clear view of heights and compare, will we be the companions from the height of yours to the next house building on that small street? Did you repeat the question, sorry, where's the bag connection? So there we go. You are to the right and feels an existence of yours of a left, right? We are two stories to the left. And that exists in building us to the right. And you guys have the same height. Now the way that we're going to. One story shorter than the building to the right. Which is your building? No, we are the two stories we are on the left. And the image. OK, sorry. But it's not like you also own the property. OK. Does that answer your question, Mr. Shepard? Yes. OK. Any other questions from the board? No, I guess my only concern would be green space. The whole, you know, we're going to cover up that front that's gravel right now. So I guess you're not losing much green space. You know, what is on that whole lot, currently, to the right, the double lots are the two lots on the right, the two small ones that you're combining, not the large one that's currently grabbed. It's all gravel right now. It was all used as per king. OK. OK. I think public testimony would be helpful as I see a lot of comments. Good afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the board. I'm Anna White with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. ONS has hosted multiple of letters meetings for 17th and 19th Barra Avenue. The last two were held on January 5th in June 1st, 2023. Around a dozen residents attended each of those meetings. The proponents answered the questions raised to the letters meetings and changed the project multiple times based on resident feedback. For example, they were moved to story from the proposed structure and they increased really hard to us that back. No support was expressed for the project at these meetings. Abutters were concerned about noise, restricted sunlight, and the proximity to this structure, of this structure to their properties. We have received two letters of support from direct abutters and 13 letters in opposition, including one from the City Point Neighborhood Association. Many people who sat in letters of opposition also signed a petition in opposition that had a total of 40 signatures against the project, saying it would create negative quality of life issues, green space, density, shadowing, and fire safety concerns. Many residents believe that 17th and 19th Barra Avenue is actually the backyard of 687 East Ape Street. And they are afraid that if this is approved, more structures located in backyards will be approved to be developed for housing purposes as well. At this time, we'd like to defer judgment to this board. Thank you very much. And for the way, can I just ask Ms. Wink, can you confirm the opposition? Are they mainly abutters as well? They're mainly the opposition, the people who are listed on the side, most of them are direct abutters, yes. And most of the people that we affirm all in the City Point Neighborhood Association. Thank you. Sorry, Ms. Colman. Thank you. Good afternoon, my name is H.M. I'm a person of the World of Calvary and Council President, Flings Office. Please no council president, please follow, sir, also an electric officials, congressman, Minch, several colleagues, representative David Mil and councilor Abash, and senator to the largest area in this case. In opposition, as these proposals are as concerned, we receive a strong opposition from nearly 60 hours of neighbors, as well as the City Point Neighborhood Association throughout the entire two year community process. We hope that this will involve the United's application to be speed-lapsed from the community and its two real electric officials, as well as to literally constrain some density and overcrowding relevant public safety constraints, quality of life issues, and a seeming lack of, lack of any hardship. While the studio's process both may not, may worsen the area in the City Point Neighborhood Association, have constantly expressed constraints about the size and density of the proposal, but this project is simply too big for the lab. And that approval will set up where it is precedents for the neighborhood, as it is viewed by the community, a scheme to overdevelopment and customers backyards. A approval of this project will potentially serve as an encouragement, and we view as a green life order developers to be the same in other backyards throughout South Boston. Others concerned include negative impacts on increasing light and air flow for the property and gardens of our body precedents, privacy concerns to our fathers to the close proximity of the project, to building next door, as well as environmental and quality of life issues, with a removal of five major trees to make way for this development. In all of this, no affordable, unilateral, additional dwelling units in both, it appears that the only overall hardship will be once created by this project for many of the existing taxpayer neighbors in South Boston. In addition, in a variety of points to neighbors, there is genuine belief that it's around the neighborhood that such private wouldn't expose our fathers to unnecessary public safety concerns. There have been worries expressed by residents that God forbid an emergency takes place like the fire of Columbia Roe in 2020, which burns seven buildings, displaced dozens of residents and injured several Boston firefighters, fighters that this project could potentially deprive future access to emergency services from our dedicated fire respondents. The conservative hope that the Sony board for fear will take these concerns of nearly 60 over neighbors in the electoral officials who present this community seriously, and both to the night of relief of the Sony variance, thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, our Solid WC Council flag make a flurry, echoing the sentiments of Council President Flynn's office, as well as the Council, what else like to add, that he does not agree with any branches being ridden for this proposal, because the proponents has been a core rising neighbor in addition to spending your betters at every time, long before this proposal, which means do not be conscientious to developer and won't be sensitive or responsive to a virus concerns during or after construction. That being said, there are multiple violations here, violations on the Article 68, Council of Echo, Senate and Council President Flynn who are in a good position. Madam Chair, members of the board, here on safe attempt from Councilmember's office, over the past couple of years, there has been four community meetings for this project and we have received little to no support. There's strong opposition from direct and surrounding about this along with the city point neighborhood association. Most of the opposition comes from issues around equality, life, sunlight, privacy, and loss of any variance space. The Council is not over live opposition, but would also like to conduct an opposition, thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Julie Dillon from Senate and Collins Office, I'm with you, a call on our colleagues and opposition, thank you. Can I hear from Ms. Galvin since it appears she's a directly butterer? Ms. Galvin, go ahead. Hi everyone, I'm Jen Galvin, can you hear me? Yes, thank you. Okay, great. I live in five seven parades in South Boston. I am a direct butter. I am very strongly opposed to this project. I feel like it would really negatively impact our quality of life, it would destroy our green space and it would actually affect significant risk. We would lose access to emergency services if this property and the state developed, which is very dangerous, the strut of fire is very real in South Boston because the homes are built so close together and overcrowding like this is extremely dangerous. In regards to Mr. Burns's comments, we just want to note that the condos of Mr. Burns referenced earlier today that were approved by the board in the past, they were placed in existing single-family homes on F3, they were not built in a backyard. And was this project proposed it to build a home and it's to build multi-family homes in a small backyard? This project is also ignored, article even though this project includes building an additional home in a backyard, it has completely ignored article 14, which governs the building of additional was dwelling unit. I think ignoring article 14 in this case is very dangerous and that it would put our community at risk. So I also want to clarify in regards to the board's question regarding what's in the lot now, there are green space in the lot now. There are five of the chart trees, 30 to be grasped as the current owner has just started parking lots and there is still green space left. As the residents here greatly appreciate and we pay to be destroyed. My final comment is that there is no proof of hardship here, which would just be viable to this project and will provide absolutely no benefit to the community. The plan for these units is to be sold for profit as high as price possible. There is a valid firm that fits financially and it will be at everyone else's big funds. Thank you for your time. And I hope you will deny the appeal of the project. Thank you. Okay, yes, this is, yeah. Kristen? Hi everyone, Kristen Foley. I am a direct butter at 685 Eastgate Street, which is directly behind the project at 17 Bag Ave. I am asking you to reject this project given the current violations. The size and scale of this project does not fit in this space. It would significantly impact the quality of life for the community. I also wanted to know for the board's knowledge that the proponent is currently citing a 9.7 foot rear setback, but they are including a dated four foot easement that runs behind the buildings on East A Street, making it only a 5.7 foot rear setback compared to the 5.20. This has been raised to the proponent who has yet to address the discrepancy. That's all I have at this time. Thank you and I hope you consider our concerns when making our decision. Thank you. William? Like can you hear me? Yes, ma'am. Okay, great. I'm not going to go over like the direct butter's, I'm just saying, I want to look at this from a different perspective. And I want to bring up those parcels in the backyard that he's trying to put together. Barry ad does not extend to his property number one. And you can see that through the city of Austin-Malts. So that's number one. Number two, my question, does the city have the right to actually extend Barry ad? Because what the proponent would then be doing is opening up his backyard to extend Barry ad. So now he's making it private, but then he's going to put it back to put the three parking spots in there. So I don't think you can have it both ways. So I know probably ways are very tricky. Their government under the easement law are the code of Massachusetts. And I don't think that what he is proposing and asking the city to do to extend Barry ad is legal. The there are 10 of others on two Barry ad and as far as I know, nine of them are against this. The one that may support it is one of the support letters, which is the developer of 17 Barry ad. So it's a very tricky slope. We don't want to be building in backyards and we don't want to be flipping private ways into public parking. So and that's across the city of Austin as well as on Barry. His owning violation stands for themselves. We will have a wall, three feet from five Shepton Terrace. If this gets supported, it will kill our sunlight. It will kill our gardens. If you look at Shepton Terrace, it's a walk up off of these state streets. And in the back, there's five houses and we all have beautiful gardens and that's our own door space. So it's kind of our little bit of heaven here. So we're asking that you reject this. Thank you, ma'am. How many other ways to answer? We have. I guess one more carry? Okay, let's take that last one. Can you hear me? Yes ma'am. I am curiosity in the mid-17. I'm straight. We consulted a water resource entrepreneur who worked for public and private entities who ensure residents are negatively attacked in fact, like the dogs. I'm sorry, are you speaking in support of opposition? Opposition? Okay, thank you. Right. Based on our review of the plan, the allowable to 100% family about, the people present beautifully. The plan was there is impact on our growing and other stone houses. We utilize 100% of our units basement. It contains a bedroom, a toilet, an office, a laundry and two-sourge faucets, our toilet putter. It also houses the permanent area for the other two units in the building. So our mechanicals will be impacted by flooding. A bedding elevation is at least 10% of our graded post-development. And we have heard nothing about water mitigation and damage to our property from unmidigable to Panama. There's a huge liability for the property producing the runoff as well as the engineer that might approve or stamp the plan. And it's a liability for the zoning board. We need to know what the water mitigation plan is. How's the board going to guarantee the doubt that developers do not take shortcuts, which is a common practice with the mitigation plan? I think it's well known back that the intensive is round up now. Sorry, I'm going to leave. And I'd like to know how we're getting ready for this increase in the building. Thank you. Thank you. Are there any other raise stands? We'll take one more. Yeah, Ed Austin. Hi, yes. Also, the butter wanted to just put in our thoughts on the loss of the sheet trees, which is for some of the few big trees that are right in the very local neighborhood there. I think there's a big loss to the neighborhood as well. And we'd like to have you support our cause to not approve this property to go forward. Thank you. All right. Thank you. There seems to be one more raise stand. We'll take that last one. Mr. Thomas, if you see it. OK, yeah, Chris, go ahead. Hi, Matt. I'm Chair in the board. I just wanted to add one comment to clarify from some initial comments that were made by the developer. So they mentioned the parking lot. The parking lot is an illegal parking lot, which we reported to ISD on multiple occasions. The most recent resulted in the owner being served, which is why they finally, he mentioned, as of a couple days ago, not a parking lot, because they finally stopped using it for parking because now they're trying to push their agenda with this development. The other piece that is important to point out is that, sorry, I lost my train of thought. Oh, excuse me. In terms of the documents that I previously submitted to the board, where they're talking about this continually as being a parking lot, it's only been a parking lot for several years. Recently, prior to that, it was advertised by the owner as a back yard space. And I also submitted multiple photos to the board, showing that back yard space documented from 2013 to 20. So this is not a long-term thing. This is a quick attempt by the owner to try to develop what is actually a back yard. And it has been used as an illegal parking lot, which just substantiates what kind of... Thank you. Thank you. Good. Thank you, sir. OK. Any response from the applicant before we make a motion? Yeah, I just... I want to draw a very clear delineation between myself as a proponent and the current owner of the property. We are not one of the same. We are under contract to purchase the property from the current operator. We've been of a component for shutting down the parking lot for the entire time that we've been under contract and going through this process. And other than that, I just humbly submit to the discretion of this board. And I don't want to take any more of your time. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Any last questions from the board? Madam Chair, can you read VPDAs recommendation? I don't. We're done. Or if Mr. Handling is here, do you want to read it yourself? Thank you, Madam Chair. I'm just going to hand to VPD. We've been on the record as approval with the eye and that's how I would like to welcome you to the moment of current. OK. So I'm just going to put some observation for my colleagues. And then it's OK. I'll put forward a motion. So there are three properties for the applicant. And zoning, the three properties are zone as multifamily residents. The minimum law is 2000. The law where they're proposing parking it's approximately 1,000 square feet. And then two other laws are about 750 square feet. So if you were to combine them, it would need the minimum of the 2000s for a lot to build multifamily residents with a height of 40 feet. Looking now at the Google Earth, it would make sense. And there was no parking in the space. Therefore, emergency vehicles can access all the way to the end of the proposal. And I would have made a recommendation that the proposal follows a very similar typology to the buildings that exist on the site next to it, which is similar townhouses. With that, I would like to perform a motion of denial without prejudice. Second. Mr. Stumbridge. Yes. Mr. Berraza. Yes. Mr. Schupper. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Oh, yeah. Long day, sorry. Yes. Mr. Hadov. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Chair, also, yes. The motion carries. Next we move on to KGWA 1471767. The address of 556 East Broadway. Mr. O'Connor. It's a good afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the board. Mark LeCast, the cast, law 75 Arlington Street, and Boston attorney for Nick Schiffer and Megan Schiffer. And their family who are the owners of 556 East Broadway and their proposal to create a little more living space for their four children and themselves, because they want to stay in this house forever. You can stuff right there in the picture of the front of the house. So this is on East Broadway at the crest of the hill. They currently own the building, and I'm lived here for some time. They occupy the top two floors. And then the lower floor here, the scene at street level, is a separate unit. And then, much like in the south end, you see there's some windows there below the sidewalk level. There's another unit down there. Because of the slope of the property down to each street place behind it in the back of the building, it's a much different walk out condition from the lower level unit. But the Schiffer is up proposing an addition on the top of the building, set back from the street front so you don't see it in the lower right way. Wow. Sorry, my doors won't open in the rain. Oh, yes, it's something that's a storm outside. And the proposal is to add 616 square feet to the top. If you could go to slides 9, 10, 11, 9, 10, 11, we'll cut to the chase here. So these are elevations, existing elevations. On the left is the front of the building, the three stories as it reads on East Broadway, in the back of the building, the two red squares are presenting the Schiffer's current residence, the square that looks like a center block box is actually an existing addition that was added at some point. You can see it on an upper right hand picture there. It's not very attractive, but it provides an additional bedroom for the unit on the out level. And part of the proposal to go and renovate and substantially improve this property is to make that box look much better, which has drawn much support from the neighbors behind us. You look at that thing. And then there are some parking spaces underneath it. Next slide please. So this is just an existing section of the building as it currently exists. Top two floors of the Schiffer unit. The next two floors are each of the two dwelling units. And the lowest level basement space is just storage and other non-living spaces. Next slide. So the proposal there is at the top, 616 square feet set back from the front so that if you were standing on East Broadway across the street, a little person there looking up across the street, those are the sight lines. You can see that it's we're making it as minimally visible as possible. Although this is not an historic district per se, there are a lot of beautiful historic homes on East Broadway and Nick Schiffer is actually in the business of building and they wanted to do this as carefully and sensitive as possible. So it's set back there to create some additional living space. So as completed if this is approved, it would be the top three floors, would be the Schiffer residence, the red circle on the left hand side represents an existing deck on top of that box that extends in the rear yard so that would be their outdoor space. And then the next two levels are each of the smaller apartments with the lower level, storage, office, and that would be controlled by the Schifters. Next slide. Or let's jump ahead to the last slide, 15. Which shows the rear elevation. One of the other aspects of this proposal that the Schifters are doing is to remove the masonry on the existing two levels and then make the top level all glass in the back because from this perch location on East Broadway, the views of the seaport and the financial district are just unparalleled and spectacular. So they're going to make this sort of a glass curtain wall and we're to really pick out light in the city views in the back with our outdoor space on top of that existing box. And with that, I'll say that the FAR has been increased by approximately 15% from the existing 3.3 to 3.8. With the addition, the height is 41.6 in a sub district that is 35, although that's probably in Arabic as most of south Boston is 40, but when it re-sounds, the East Broadway stretch, it remained 35 at the table. The other items cited in the zoning code reviews the letter of insurgent side yard and insurgent rear yard are existing conditions that are not being exacerbated by this proposal. And then finally, Article 68-29. As discussed in the prior case, it's a conditional use anytime you put an addition on top of an existing building in south Boston so we can see the conditionally is permanent for that condition and the other dimensional experiences as well. And with that, I will conclude my presentation. We also have the shifters online and Vincent Apple, our architect, if you have any questions. Thank you, Mr. Ocas. Any questions from the board? I'm going to open it tomorrow with testimony. Good afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the board. I'm Anna Wait with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. I'm going to ask posted in the button for 555 East Broadway in April 24th, 2023. Everybody has attended the meeting. Ever for an express their support for the project? Oh, nice. Is unaware of any concerns. At this time, I'd like to defer judgment to the board. Thank you very much. Good afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the board. I'm a colleague and subcrossed President, Phoenix Office. The councilor would like to go on recording support based on a good community process as well as feedback from neighbors and the gate of heaven and evil association. If not, he also supports this proposal as the second floor that is our VRNX 16 deck. Councilor President, Phoenix, respectfully request that the proponent continue to work closely with the neighbors and civic group on any quality of life issues during the construction phase. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, the councilor, the city councilor, live in like a variety. The reality of the one-intergranting article 68, our colleague, Duke Haddner, obviously the councilor, I was a person with the proposal and the time, the gate of the board. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, you have no reason to talk about that. Okay. No problem. With that, may I have a motion? I'll make a motion to approve the PPTA design review. May I have a second? Sorry, come to. Mr. Stemper. Yes. Mr. Stemper. Mr. Stemper. Mr. Stemper. Yes. Mr. Schephard. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Penauto. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Check also votes. Yes, motion carries. Thank you. Thank you so much. Thank you so much. Next, we have case theory 146-8765 address. 251-235 West River Street. The applicant and order represent. Madam Chair, members of the board, John Moran, L-Plan advisory services with the mailing address of 130, beach road, or on Ainsmas. Madam Chair, I would like to go through the violations and the architect is available to go through the plans. We are cited for again a roof structure restriction. The proposed roof deck and headhouse create the need for a conditional use format and also under section 8, a variance, the height of code restriction of 40 feet, but it's being proposed at 48.7 feet. We are suggesting a house to be in compliance with the state building form rather than a hatch. So it's important to note that West River Street and East Street for modality is zero. Neither street has a setback. We are cited under section 34, the special provision for the setback requirements on a corner lot. I would respectfully suggest that the code requires that there be existing minimum front yard setbacks. In this case, there is no minimum setback where the modality is zero. If they are the code is true, we are proposing 2.3 safety relief. We are cited for instanti-student mod area that code provides for 2000 square feet. We are going to provide the combined lots for 2732 square feet. However, under the code, under section 8, each additional unit above the first street buys a 1000 square feet. So we would need 4000 square feet. We are proposing it is 2732 square feet. We are cited for a front yard setback that suggests that that is not a violation because of modality of West River Street. Also on East Street, we are the property of Betts, a street corner lot. We are going to provide the front yard rather than the side yard requirements are called into play. The side yard setback adjacent to 257 is compliant and will be heavily landscaped. There is no violation with the setback on East Street since the modality is zero. And respectfully suggest that there is no violation. We proposed roof decks needed to meet the open space requirement of 2000 square feet, a readily accessible open space per unit. Two decks would be 239 square feet and one deck would be 205 square feet. The townhouses would have three bedrooms. The size of the units would be 2 of them would be 2092 square feet and one would be 2078 square feet. What we are doing is proposing a three unit four story dwelling with garage parking, with individual roof decks. The combined one was the result of demolishing a single family property on East Street and combining it with the common vacant block, the E and West Street as shown on the plan's front. If the board has questions, I would ask the eye protect to go through the plans or we would be willing to respond to any questions that the board may have. I have a quick question. There appear to be mature trees on the site right now. What would be the plan for that? We would remove the trees from what we are proposing to do is to do some planting with the park departments approval on the way. And between the proposed dwelling and 257 we would put a screening of trees to view the property. Are there questions before they go in? Through the chair, on the open space, on the open wall, building on that corner, does that leave any type of a line of spot for our cars or pedestrian cross and that might not see in between East Street and West Street? The code on a corner light provides a qualification and if I may read it under the special provisions to corner light. If a lot of that smells in one street, the requirements are entirely in the right. With a traffic visibility corner light. Whoever in minimum front light is required, in this case there is no minimum front light required. The exception of the accountability of traffic visibility, design requirements do not apply. It is as blind as most of the intersections in South Boston. It is, I would suggest, it's not a unique condition. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? Did you, did the component work continue? Yes. We had a site meeting that was very positive by a meeting of the brothers and their letters of support, submitted five letters of support in relationship to support the necessary conditional use permit and their alliances. If you would like, I can go through the project that I would ask. I assume the architect, Zach or you want, or did I lose them? No, I'm here. If you would go through the project, please shop. We can go to the first one plan, scroll. So actually if you go up another page, yes, we'll start here. So each of these three units here, off of East Street, we'll have access into their own hydrocarriages. They'll be pedestrian access off the West Street, East Street, East Street, we'll have its own entrance recess in off of that street. Common utilities for the building will be in the back. I might trash storage will be inside East Street. Again, my grandson will be in right between the properties. There'll be a heavy landscape buffer between the two. And you can go to the next floor. Next floor, all the units are sand layout, kitchen dining, living bathroom. Nothing out of the ordinary here. Go down next floor to the primary bedroom floor. The primary bedroom closet is bathroom, study slash nursery. Then as we move up to the third floor, there'll be two secondary bedrooms on the third floor with a shared bathroom. And then as we make our way to the roof deck, there'll be a closed warehouse access to each roof deck. You open to having roof hatch access to the roof because currently the zoning is 40 feet high. And you have 40, I think it's yes, with the penthouse, with the penthouse is bringing you all the way to. 48 points. So yeah. And the order should be. 48 point seven, a quarter to the to the head health. Yeah, so they're hoping to reduce the high pass. They are great. Thank you. And we have for Mr. Hampton on the BPD, recommendation. Thank you, Madam Chair. The MPPA. Redmond and L. I just like to see the on the true trees remain on that's big. They are playing. I mean, right now. I said we're done favor of the three. And I'm just there. I'm like, I'm. I'm. I'm. Access. I'm. That's our recommendation. Okay. Any questions from the board? Let's open it up to public testimony. Good afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the board. I'm Anna Wait with the mayor's office and neighborhood services. ONS Post and the letters meeting for 251 through 255 west 3rd Street on June 1st, 2023. Around 10 of butters attended. The proponents answered all the questions raised. We're really happy with how they propose a lot. But some concerns are raised about roof decks, the headhouse and obstructed news. ONS has received three letters in support in one letter and opposition at this time of late to defer judgment to the board. Thank you very much. Good afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the board. I have color of the council president, Flint's office. The council will like to go and record in our position based on feedback from neighbors and the same things sent lower-end neighborhood association. Residents have color attention to the roof deck. Constructors are aware of variant 16 quality of live issues. The developer has shown an agreement to compromise and remove the roof decks for the neighbors and as a result, council president Flint remains opposed to police lines standing policy against roof decks in the residential neighborhood of South Boston. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Paul Sullivan. The city council allows a micro-planned council would like to go and record in opposition due to Article 68 violations listed in their fuselage as well as the butter's concerns regarding the roof decks. Thank you. I'm really standing. I've seen no racial rights. I've raised my hand and I'm going to come back to you. Do you want to address some of those points? No, I'm sorry. I'm raising my hand and capacity as a butter. Oh, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Am I over half? I'm Mark McCass. I reside at 250 West Third Street, which is a five-year-old building diagonally across the street. I'm also the trustee of the five-year-old association. All of my fellow unit owners and myself attended the butter meeting and expressed our support for the project, noting the desire to convert the headhouses to hatches for roof deck access, which I can say as a resident on the fourth floor of a four-story building on this stretch request third who has a roof deck. There are dozens and dozens of roof decks in the neighborhood that provide delightful outdoor space for those of us who are fortunate enough to have them. And access by hatch seems to be the solution. Is there many, many such examples in the neighborhood where also blessed with very mature street trees between E and F street on West Third. So there's a magnificent existing tree canopy that runs the length of the streets from the existing city street trees. So with that, I express my support. And on behalf of the fellow unit owners at 246-250 West Third Street, we also express our support. Thank you. Okay. Okay. Have no additional raised hands. Okay. Well, does Mr. McCass or anybody else want to address the BPA response before we take a vote? I wouldn't be Mr. McCass because he was in a butter. That's good. I am. I am. I am. I am. I am. Sorry. It's comments during the site meeting and more importantly tonight, this afternoon, seems like it's tonight. Yeah. I would echo Mark's comments. There are mature street canopies on the public way. The corner light had been an eye sore as noted by, I believe, one of the letters filed in support. It does have a tree. But I think overall providing, removing any single family home that suffered from a likely deferred tree. It's likely deferred maintenance in a corner locked up. It's not exempt of the community that providing three additional units. Condominium units, which will be sold, not rented. It's an overall positive addition to the community. Okay. I would like to have motion. I'm chair. I like to put forward a motion of approval to proviso. One is that the project undergoes BPD design review for the exterior and for the size of the roof deck. And then the second proviso is to provide access to the roof door of roof hatch. Is there a second? That's it. Mr. Stembridge. Yeah. Mr. Bidobazo. Yes. Mr. Shepard. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Ponnato. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Care words. Yes. Motion carries. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Ponnato. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. I am very happy to be here. Next, we have case B awake. 144. 9394. Yes. Yes. 949. That's all. Three. Applicant and would there represent both? Can you raise me hand if you are on for this proposal? to make you a panelist. I assume except the panelist as a nation, can you unmute yourself please? Good afternoon. I am Jason Parillo with Sterling Science here today for to allow Gordon Ramsay Burger, a second wall sign on the head over street side of the building. This sign is an internally illuminated sign that is tastefully designed. It is suddenly illuminated, so the only lettering and the red section on the logo illuminates, the black is just a aluminum background. The hardship of this sign really comes down to visibility. The restaurant was allowed a wall sign over the entrance on the surface road, and also a blade sign, but for the other two sides of the building, there is no signage. And because they are going to rely a lot on pedestrian traffic and also vehicular traffic on the surface roads, a sign on the head over street would be really important to identify the restaurant. We met with the Warth District Council, there are the closest jurisdiction for this location. Originally we brought this sign to them, this 40 inch high sign that's 57.77 square feet. They felt that it was too large. So we reduced the sign down to 33.33 square foot sign that is only 23 inches high. In order to meet their concerns about size, unfortunately, they still felt it was too large. So we're here just to ask for this second wall sign in order to give the restaurants some sufficient visibility, which would be critical to their success. So we're here to ask for this second wall sign to be critical to their success. But just, sorry, I'm going to miss this. What's the size of the other sign that he said is on the surface? Yeah, the signs that are over the entrance are smaller. I can get you that size for one second. And then what's under rendering? Is that scaled to the 33 inches, the smaller dimension? What's on, I can share my screen with the sign of the smaller sign. What we're seeing right now is at the 40 inch. Yes, what you're seeing right now is what we're going to be proposing. And then like I said, we shrank it down to a 32 inch high by 12 foot six and sign, which is, 33.333 feet, where the proposed was 57. And sorry, did you have the dimensions of the current sign? I'm going to have to look those up. Sorry. Okay, are there other questions from the board? Okay, the PPDA, does Jeff want to weigh in? Yes, thank you Madam Chair and Members of the Board, what Jeff had to be a PDA. This is something that probably never should have gone to the Board of Appeal. This is governed by the development plan for PDA number 103, which I can see outside my window. And the operating procedures for any plan said need to be changed or any signage or any question about what is in the development plan. ISD sends it to us for a letter of consistency. And what we do in situations like this is take in the plans, review them with review the proposal. And then we actually have a stamp that says that these plans are consistent. There is language within the PDA itself that all signs should be reviewed through the PDA. They already have their zoning relief. It's just something that we need to do design review on. So it's really strange how we're going to handle this. I just asked that we defer it. And that would have been if we do a motion or approval with the PDA design review or the size of the graphic. I mean, we can do that. Something similar happened on Thursday night where there was something that should not have gone to the Board, which was already allowed by the development plan. So it's just an extra step that didn't need to be taken because we already have procedures in place in a process in place or something like this to happen. If you want to do that, that's fine. I mean, I don't have a problem with it. It's just the last two hearings we've had issues where I think the appellant has gone through a step that didn't need to be taken. I have information about the signs of allowable writing for me though. Okay. Yeah, so the signs that were allowed by write was just over the entrance on the facing the surface road that's 20 inches by 120 inches. And then there were also allowed a blade sign that sticks out on that same side. That's 27 inches high by 50 inches wide. All right. Any other questions from the Board? Here none. Let's go with public testimony. Yes, Madam Chair, members of the Board. We're calling on anyone with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. The sound Mayor's Office is deferred to the judgment of this board, some back information, the community process. We originally had a new butters meeting for the polls where the restaurant was planning out opening and had them connect with the local civic association when they came back with the proposal regarding the signage as you heard from the proponent. Most recently I believe the Wurf District Council was loaded to a pose and similar letter around June 9th due to concerns about the size of the post sign. I believe the Board should have a record of that without deferred to the Board. Thank you. Did you have a raise to hand in? Are you looking at testimony here? Hi, yes. Damon Irby, 25, Solta, Elgar, and Grownton. We work with Gordon Ramsay, North America development team. And as far as this restaurant goes, it's really difficult to see the restaurant from really, unless you're standing directly in front of it because of all the trees on the, on the Rose Kennedy Parkway and the sign that's above the door is recessed just above the revolving door that you can't even see it unless you stand on the sidewalk in front of it. And there's the three-sided building. So they really, you know, respectfully request approval just to have something invisible coming down the parkway and also from Hanover Street. And they don't have anything on the Blackstone Street elevation, which you can see from, I'm not coming up from Fangwall. So the visibility is really not all that great here. And we did make the sign smaller. And, you know, the 32 inches, that can be, I believe, 50 or 52 inches tall. And then, you know, the second sign that we've showed to the neighborhood association was 32 inches tall, but I believe 10 feet long, which is small. But I think it would really help with traffic and having the public see, identify the business and the restaurant prior to being right in front of it, coming from different directions, even if you're looking at it from the north end, you can't even see the building. So it's just, it'd be nice to have additional signage on that one elevation. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it. I don't know additional those signs. But that may have emotion. And I'm chairlling to the floor, emotion of approval with a provisal that the project undergoes, BPDA, Design Review, to be a special attention to the size of the exterior sign. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Stomper. Yes. Mr. Bervaza. Yes. Mr. Shepherd. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Canado. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Chair also votes, yes. Motion carries. Thank you very much. Okay. The most there. Next we have the consideration here. 4K's BOA, 14, 1808. The atmosphere is 1 mile front. It's the applicant and the director of the project. Now Paul, call us at you. Let me just make your panelists. Thank you. I'm going to become a panelist even in New Year's. Thank you. I've been here since 1. So I appreciate how long the meeting has been for the board. I'll be very brief. This request was before the board. As you see from the reconsideration letter in May and the board voted floor to three in favor of the request of the leave. Obviously, it needed five votes. And I conferred with Mr. Hampton afterwards, apparently there was some confusion about the ISE refused for better because it referred to what was being proposed as a reprimation and the request of the board. I think that's the kind of establishment where this is solely a delivery operation. And the neighborhood is completely in support of it. The impacts to the neighborhood are virtually nonexistent. The structure itself is currently a nonconforming food delivery service. We appreciate that if we were starting from scratch, this delivery service would be for big and nonconforming delivery business that we're asking to continue as a nonconforming delivery. We will need to leave because we have establishments within the coxivity of one another when this is reconsidered for the board to take off. But as you can see in the record, we got a new ISE refused a better which makes it crystal clear that this is a delivery only operation fully supported by the many people who have the residents. The property owner has looked at trying to develop the property from open-family use which would be in a well-use, besides getting a enormous neighborhood opposition. The number of units that would be required to make an economically feasible, we make this project really not see on this particular street. So there's a building there that would be perfect for this particular use with very benign impacts to the neighborhoods that the neighborhood completely supports. There was confusion about a cannabis establishment and I think concerned about a retail establishment which this is not. And so we would ask the board to vote in favor of reconsiderations so we can come back and represent it with a more accurate and correct refusal letter and hopefully be in a position to get that best vote that we need so that we can move forward. As our reconciliation that indicates the applicant is a both an economic and permanent applicant under the same regulations for this kind of business and it's also a city of Boston, Boston's social equity applicant, Eric and Kennedy she presented to the board and made, I'm sure you don't remember but she would be available to present. We also have a further Erica and Joseph Rubin, the principal of DB delivery available to the board has any questions. So we think there was a fair amount of confusion at May 9th because of the refusal letter. We cleared that confusion up. This is a fully supported project. Nobody is opposed to it. The benign impact on the neighborhood and really any difficult case chip because all of the parts of the parking of any of the library vehicles would take place inside the building. There would be no swarthry parking required for this delivery business. There would be totally contained on site. And it's just you need to be able to find a location like this that can accommodate content that can accommodate this business so well but considering that it was a food delivery business before this request. So with that, I'll leave it a fan. I know it's the long day but I'm happy to answer any questions. Yeah, just a quick Mr. Hampton, do you want to weigh in? Because I don't think I was confused when I heard the first time. I think I recall it being distribution but maybe there was a reason. I think that thank you Madam Chair and Mr. Board Jeff Hampton, BPD. I think there was a little bit of confusion only because like Paul had said they were doing delivery only but when you looked at the application, the actual advertisement description on the agenda, it didn't mention that at all. It just says that was going to be a retail cannabis establishment. Now that being said, I mean it's up to the board whether or not it wants to be reconsidered. The BPD8 waited on this case. Our recommendation is not going to change on this. We've recommended denial the first time and we're going to stand by that recommendation. So even if there was only delivery there because it's a cannabis establishment in a residential zoning district, I know the building is not conforming but that doesn't change the zoning of the property. So it's obviously up to the board on how they want to weigh in on this but our recommendation is going to remain the same. Okay, thank you. Thank you. Any questions from the board? What's within a half a mile? What's the existing cannabis used within a half a mile? It's a retail use within a half a mile. So that's an important distinction that this delivery use and the retail use are completely different forms of malice establishment. And so when we think that we're going to be able to be showing to the board that they're completely independent uses. And just in response to Mr. Hampton who's been very helpful in terms of explaining to us his position, the use is not required. We do not require various, we require a conditional use permit to change one nonconforming use to another. And that's the reason why I made the point because I am sensitive to the BBDA's position here. That look it's a forbidden use. We don't want to wow and ask of right use. I, you know, for being used in the zoning district, but we already have a nonconforming delivery use. And so we're not impacting the community way I can quickly in two seconds go through section 6.3 of the zoning code where the word in the thing and considering a conditional use permit from change of a nonconforming use. And it asks is it more objectionable? It's not been able to say that will there be any adverse effects? There would be no off-site parking gate for traffic study the last time. And serious hazard to the professional snow. Is there a new sense? No. Is the facility adequate? It's perfectly situated for this kind of reuse. I think Ms. Pannato was asking what's in proximity. The way it is, you know, it's on a clap street. It's on a clap street. Right down the street, right? It's like literally a block or two. No. Right. No plans for any kind of beautification of that existing building. I know there was a mural that was going to interact with the community in connection with putting together a mural to be filed a building. It's just a sample rendering, but that is something that the applicant is concerned. And again, the delivery business is not servicing this particular name of a building. That's what the recreational retail establishment is doing. The delivery businesses has a water. Okay. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Hearing none. Can I have public testimony? Yes. Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor, and with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services, the sound Mayor is obviously to defer to the judgment of this board. It's pretty to be testified when the applicant was before the board. We hosted a community meeting. There were some concerns from some of the butters regarding the amount of traffic and maybe potential anti-social behavior that might come to the street. Get this site moved in. Other butters still can support this proposal. The second is an opportunity to add a new business to the area. They also the applicant went on to meet with the Formic Silicon Association, which was this proposal without a deferred to the board. Thank you. Okay. No, I'm trying to know these hands. Okay. Mr. Stember, do you have those letters? I don't know if I'm missing them from our emails. You have letters of support or opposition? Madam Chair, this is a reconsideration. No, it's like we just to be heard. We reconsider a new hearing. I've been advertised to get me a testimony from a brother, a genuine one. Okay. Well, I'm asking because he's talking about support and I don't, you know, that can't I remember the main night. I'm not sure. So I don't recall there even any at that time. So I'm just trying to. Yeah, they're definitely the names of people and support. But we will present them again, obviously. We do have at least four letters and more after with the bill. Yeah. Okay. Thank you. Okay. Well, with that, may I have a motion? And this is just a motion to reconsider not to support or not support at this point. One more thing after this. So I need a motion. Like to perform a motion to deny. Is there a second? Okay. Is there another motion? Motion. Motion reconsider. Slightly. Okay. Mr. Stambridge. Yes. It's better for us. Mr. Shepherd. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Are you on? Mr. Valencia. Yes. Yes, your honor. Yes. Your. I will. Yes. Okay. Thank you. Ms. Panado. Mr. Collins. Yes. The chair also votes no. The motion does not carry. Then it would be denied, manager. Okay. Next. That is the rouse. Okay. That's all right. Okay. The board has received an open meeting law complaint regarding three related zoning appeals for the project at one, two and three fourth street that was heard on July 11th, 2023. The open meeting law requires the chair to disseminate the complaint to members of the board. The open meeting law also requires that the board meet and discuss the complaint in an open session within 14 business days. After, after reviewed, the board must respond to the complaint in writing and send a copy to the complainant and attorney general's office. The board may delegate this responsibility to its counsel, but only after it has met to review the complaint. Are there any questions from the board? Okay. Hearing none, may I have a motion? I have a motion. We're going to discuss the complaint publicly before motion before. You can. I decided to study. I did for you. Yeah. So my own. My own. My own. My own. My own. My own. My own. My own. My own. My own. My own. My own. What should that study clinician write to, um, those kinds of that way we can minimize accidents of people feeling like they were muted. I don't know. I don't know how they are. Do you want to speak to this? I mean, it's just an open discussion based on what was presented to us. So I think if no one else wants to comment and we can put forward a motion. Yeah, I think that it would be helpful if we could use the chat more. I realize some people are on their phones and it's harder to use the chat if we could try to use the chat function to identify butters in those that support an opposition so we can try to hear from folks on all sides of the issue. So I can I can say that if we do do that we may want to think about adding another ambassador because sometimes looking at the chat trying to elevate folks, trying to check emails and send people information can be. So we can get a chat offline about it but just think we can be tricky trying to navigate a couple of different things and then also look at the chat. But I'd be happy to do, you know, defer whatever we spend. I think those are all fair points. Ms. Thomas along with the fact that it's really difficult to determine who's in a butter or who's not. As you know, although we ask for those most impacted, we get folks from all across the city who raise their hands and so that's the nature of the... So is there any way to get proof of residency from people that are voicing their opinions in them? Because I mean it could just be friends and family from, you know, three or four miles away that are voicing their opinions and taking up a bunch of time and pulling away from, you know, the actual butters. I would strongly encourage folks if you all have your emails to also read those comments because some of them are also on the hearing but some of them cannot make the hearing so there are people who make the effort to put in. But in comments, in writing. Concentration. Yes. We see them. Yep. Good. So is there any other questions about this? If not, I mean I have a motion. Oh, I would like to make a motion that we refer the complaint to ISD's council to prepare over and disposs on behalf of the board. May I have a second? Yes. Mr. Stombridge. Yes. It's better Brazil. Yes. Mr. Schupperig. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Panado. Yes. They're columns. Yes. They also vote yes. The motion carries. All right. Good night. Mr. Schupperig. Mr. Panado. Mr. Schupperig. Mr. Panado. Mr. Panado. Mr. Schupperig. Mr. Panado. Mr. Panado. Mr. Panado. Mr. Panado. Mr. Panado. Mr. Panado. Mr. Panado. Mr. Panado. Mr. Panado. Mr. Panado. Mr. Panado. Mr. Panado. Mr. Panado. Mr. Panado. Mr. Panado. Mr. Panado. Mr. Panado. Mr. Panado. Mr. Panado. Mr. Panado. Mr. Panado. Mr. Panado. Mr. Panado. You made me licensed to深 your work, Mr. Panatically. Mr. Panado. Mr. Panado. Mr. Panado. Mr. Panado. Mr. Panado and Mr. Ray Pholio. Mr. Panado. Mr. Panado. Mr. Panado. Mr. Panado. Mr. Panado. Mr. Panado. Mr. Panado. Mr. Panado. Mr. Panado. Mr. Panado. Mr. Panado. Mr. Panado. Mr. Panado. Mr. Panado. Mr. Panado. Mr. Panado. Mr. Panado. Mr. Panado. essentially a last week that are required to be on this year. As the opening law as read the call to jail, those things were popping up ahead. Unfortunately, beyond this scheduled hearing, and not a later one. Right. But we can put that on the agenda. I have the list I can. I'm sorry, for the next hearing today. Okay, I really appreciate it. I thought we were going to be looking for one of the types. Okay. Let this be the second. Okay. Okay.