 Thank you. Good evening, the city of Boston's zoning board of appeal hearing for August 17, 2023 is now in session. The hearing is being conducted in accordance with the applicable provisions of the open meeting law, including the updated provisions enacted by the legislature last year. The new law allows the board to continue its practice of holding virtual hearings until March 2025. This sharing of the board is being held remotely via the Zoom webinar event platform. This hearing is also being recorded. As with our in-person meetings, comments and support will be followed by comments and opposition. The order of comments is as follows. Elected officials, representatives of elected officials and members of the public. The chair may limit the number of people called upon to offer a comment and the time for commenting as time constraints require. For that reason, the board prefers to hear for members of the public who are most impacted by a project that is those individuals who live closest to the project. If you wish to comment on an appeal, please click the raise hand button along the bottom of your screen in the Zoom webinar platform. Click it again and your hand should go down. When the host sees your hand, you will receive a request to unmute yourself. Select yes and you should be able to talk. If you are connected to the hearing by telephone, please press star 9 to raise and lower your hand. You must press star 6 to unmute yourself after you receive the request from the host. Those call those called upon to comment will be asked to state their name and address first and then provide their comment. In the interest of time and to ensure that you have enough time to do so, please raise your hand as soon as Mr. Stembridge reads their address into the record. Do not raise your hand before the relevant address is called or the meeting host will not know to call upon you at the appropriate time. Those instructions will be repeated throughout the hearing. All right, Mr. Stembridge. Good evening, Madam Chair. Good evening, Madam Chair. Good evening, Madam Chair. Welcome. Thank you. The floor is yours, Mr. Stembridge. Yes, Madam Chair. First on the agenda, we have case VOA 1482195. The address is 27 Brussels Street. Is the applicant and will be your representative president? Yes. Okay, can you introduce yourself in your project, please? Yes, this is Sarah Rich, the architect for the project. As the rich and associates, 177 Milk Street Boston. I'm here presenting 27 Russell Street on behalf of the owners David Gough, Jessica Montgomery and the contractor. I'm going to have you scroll through a few different pages. I will not say quenched order, but I'll tell you which page. We can start with a cover sheet. This couple of work involves an added shower to the master bathroom, which would result in a four foot by eight foot one story bump out off the rear facade. I'll see the rear elevation on the eighth three sheet. The rear yard setback is existing non conforming. It's currently 19 foot six from the rear yard and the rear facade is 19.6 feet from the rear yard. The rear yard setback is 20 feet is required. I will just make a note that the existing fence is 13 inches within a yard. So meaning that the rear setback is further away from the house than the fence is. Please refer to the site survey on the A five sheet. There's an existing vestibule that are also projects four feet from the facade. The face of this vestibule is 15.3 from the rear yard. The rear lot line and this new bump out projection will align with the face of that. Is it okay to pause and just ask the board members if they have any questions you do have one violation. Any questions from the board? No questions. The plans are adequate. Thank you. May I have public testimony? Madam Chair and members of the board. Sean Greenham with the mayor's office and neighborhood services. And a but his meeting was held for 27 Russell Street on June 22nd. Since then this office has not received any letters of support or opposition. So we have a motion to approve. It is with that we would defer our judgment to the board. Madam Chair, no waste hands. Thank you. Okay. With that may I have a motion? Motion to approve. May I have a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Is Pinato. Yes. Sure. Also votes. Yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Thank you. The board. And the board is the board. The board is the board. The board is the board. The board is the board. Yes. Madam Chair, members of the board. This is Nate Bryant. Thank you so much for taking the time to hear us out tonight. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Before I dive into the details of the plans, I wanted to call out one thing from the purpose statement as a relationship to this project as after we submitted the report and working with the ISD. We are not doing the extension of the entryway to the third floor. This is shown in the updated plans reviewed and stamped. We are getting the first floor to be on the ISD on 525. The remainder of the project does remain the same, though. We plan on adding a dormant to the third floor, which is 16 feet by 11 inches. For two purposes, one is to create a proper egress from the third floor from the existing window that exists today. We plan on adding a dormant to the third floor. The remainder of the project is new Shi-Rok and flooring on both the second and third floors. Regarding the violations, we believe that for the neighborhood overlay district, our project does not impact any sort of pedestrian environment as it stands. And it upholds the character of the neighborhood. We plan on adding the roof structures and the floor to area excessive ratio. This is related to the dormant that we plan on adding. This dormant state is going to allow us to put a bathroom on the third floor, provide the proper egress. This will add about five feet six inches to the existing closet as it stands today to allow for the bathroom. Page 16, I believe. Any questions from the board? Is the dormant able to be viewed from the street? In regards to plans, if you scroll up one page to page 15, this is what it would look like from the front. So it's similar to our neighbors, I guess, if it regards to view from the street. Yeah. No other questions. Thank you. May I hear a, may we hear public testimony, please? Madam, today, I'm members of the board, Sean Greenham with the May's Office of Neighborhood Services. And our board is meeting was held for two meet report on June 15th. Since that time, this office has received one letter of support and none in opposition. With that, we would defer our judgment to the board. Thank you. Madam, shall I have no raised hands? Would that may I have a motion? I'll make a motion for approval with providers. I would like to ask that the plans be submitted to the BPDA for design review with some attention to the proposed dormers scale and form an alignment along with plan Charles town. May I have a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Is Panato. Yes. Sure. Also votes yes, motion carries. Good luck. Next, we have case BOA 1448246. The address of 24 common street. We have to get in with their representative. Hi, this is Kim Perry. I'm the home owner of 24 common street. My husband Scott Perry is also on the call. We basically just want to do a curb cut for our back patio to put a parking spot in there. We're not changing the look and out of place. We currently have, you can see here on the right hand side. That would be where the current road is, out of place. And then our house is where the deck is. So essentially, we just want to be able to pull the car up into our back patio. We're going to keep an existing fence there. We're going to switch out the fence, but the fence will look the same as it currently does. We're not changing the look of L would or anything back there. We just want to be able to park at night. There's been a lot of parking spots taken away on the front side on common street in the training field circle due to, we actually don't quite know why. I think spots were taken away basically every corner. So we've lost three to four spots in the last year. And we have three kids and just like to be able to pull into our back patio and park late at night, we'll come back from sporting events and other activities. And you confirm so there, there is no curb cut currently correct. You're adding. We're adding a curb cut. It's a current fire lane back there. So there's no current parking spots. So we're not taking away any parking spots. We would just like to add a curb cut in order to pull into our base to be packed back patio. So we're not creating you only creating one spot correct, but we're not taking away any parking spots. Yeah, go go. Google Earth has a pickup truck in that space currently. That's would be two houses down from us. So we are 24 common 22 common street has I believe it's a two car park or curb cut already there. Is yours the white fence in the like the white fence in Google Earth? Like a dark. You might be on Putnam. So it's it's right behind us. I think would be. Eight L wood place. So there's no way to park a car currently in off of L wood way. If the fire lanes, so you're not technically not supposed to park back there. People pull up and on road groceries, but there's currently no existing parking spaces on L wood place. And then there's a poll. Where is that poll looks like a telephone poll. It's it's it's the telephone pole slash utility or something. You know, yeah, and it's with this plan. So it be. You can see in the top of the word so in the diagram on the screen, the online. It's right up there. So it's so the middle right. The poll is in the outside. We have when the on land surveyor came, we have enough. Yeah, doesn't affect the poll. So it definitely this would definitely require a pick approval. Because you are really close to that poll and potentially a line of utility lines. So that's the public improvement commission. Yeah, it's just confusing exactly where you are on Google Earth looking at the back of your site. Let me go on my. So you're trying to access from L wood and not from common. Yeah, enough. Yeah, from Elwood. So which is like a little alley. Yeah, so what you do is I don't I'm on Google Earth, so I can see it better on what you guys are looking at. So L wood street. Yeah, so. Where's that pickup truck parked right now next to a white picket fence and a gray shed? Looking here. Can you help us with what number L wood I'd be referring to. So I understand where you are. Yeah. Change this. Yeah, I see the picket that the pickup truck. And it looks like it's behind this building, but it's sometimes it's hard to. I think I need to move this. Okay, there we go. Like a seven there like where yeah, what number? Yeah, okay, the white pickup truck. Where do you see that? No, it's a black pickup truck, a white house, a gray shed, a white picket fence. Well, let me go in that part of seeing. Scott, can you see? I have to like drop someone down and look over there. Yeah, so it's it's just helpful. It's helpful for us to understand like where is it exactly? Yeah, basically, is it possible to share the Google Earth images? We can't share screen. No, we can't. You have to go on Google Earth yourself and look at it. Are you basically like where are you? Yeah, I'm looking at it now. I don't see any white pickup on the Google Earth. It's not a white pickup. It's a white fence with a block like a dark colored pickup. Right. Maybe it's blue or right. Yeah. I would probably like. Are you the brownish like fence next to it with the trees like more? I mean, so I see I sorry. I see that. Thank you. White pickup, I think with the fence. That is. It's not a white pickup. It's a dark color pickup truck. Like blue. It's a white fence and a gray shed. So you're to the left of that is what we're just under. We're just trying to orient ourselves. Where are you? We are two doors down. So there's some trees that you can see a green kind of a red and then another smaller green. We're down there. It don't. Does that. The right of the left to the right from the view that I'm looking at. It's looking from the outward perspective. So there's. So that's not you. Is that you the cedar looking fence or are you the one in front of like the basketball. Thing. Probably the best thing. I don't. I need more I think to get. All right. Yeah. There is a normally a basketball group. I mean, I think from. I think because it's going to go to the pick for review. I mean, I think it's going to be a good idea. I mean, it's. You know, it's it's a backyard. It's it's it's not a. It's not a necessarily something we wouldn't approve, but, but I do believe that having that. That poll and that utility is going to require a pick approval for this. Okay. So. I've answered my questions. Be helpful to know exactly whose white house that is. Is that that's not your house is not a white house. I think that's the only thing that I can do. I think that's the only thing that's not your house is the Sullivan. So that is. 22, I believe. I got you. So we are. So there's common street. If. Elwood Street is behind you, our house. There's a greenhouse. It's two houses, but it maybe looks like one of the picture. But I'm. If I'm on Elwood Street. So my view is off of Elwood Street and on Elwood Street, I see a white house. Are you to the right or the left? To the right or you're going to keep going down Elwood Street. So we would be. To the. We're to the right if you're looking at the White House from Elwood Street. Okay. Thank you. That helps. And we'd be two houses down. So it'd be the White House. And there's essentially our fences. Our neighbors looked exactly the same, but we're the second fence of the wood fences. Okay. All right. And the circles on these plans to know telephone polls are utility polls. So you've got one right. In the middle of your proposed parking space. In the middle. No, we don't. What's what's these circles to know it on your plan? Hi. Where do you see this? We see several lights like public lights on that. We see the right. We see the right. We see the right. That's the. That's the front of the house. So we're looking in that's that's the side of her. So we're looking in the back. Like right there where it says number 24. We're looking back here. See where it says deck. We'd be to the right of the deck. Okay. I think you have a different view than I have or maybe others have. Oh, okay. I think I think we can keep moving. I don't go to the pick. And they'll start out the lights in the polls. Okay, so we have a lot more to do. This is basically a location based on, you know, it being a small. And what. And so I just want to hear from the public and understand it. I was looking back. I was looking backwards. Now I can see it. Yes. So there is. There is a telephone folder. I'm not sure the circle denotes it or whether it's further to the right. You know the post spot would not interfere with it, but obviously as you said, it would be it would be somewhat close to it. So. Yeah, I think that's what public improvement and commission will sort through. So is there a certain zoning that we can't be close to a certain. A amount of space between or they just need to approve it. I think it's going to just go to the pick to review. Happy air is that accurate. I'm not sure I have to talk with a plan to zameter. I don't see anything cited through that. So I think James right. It's about maneuverability in and out of this space, which is not really our purview, but it is the purview of the public improvement commission. So just flagging that. And B to B has not waited that I know of to this project. So maybe. I don't think we have any more questions that we can get. Do we do you know I'd like to open the public comment. Jessica could I. Yeah. Madam. I'm James the board. Sean Green with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. And the blood is meeting was held at 24 comments read on June 13th. And I think that's the only thing that's been done is that time. This office has received one letter in support. Five letters in opposition. A majority of the concern does revolver on L. Wood Street. It being a narrow dead end filing. This concerns regarding snow removal. Now that would work. Also with a gas light. Pulled it. One that's going to have to be removed. And then we'll be able to do that. And then we'll be able to do that. And then we'll be able to do that. I'm primarily 11. What I believe that cause lights might be shining into the lower floor of that building. With that, we would defer our judgment to the board. A few other raised hands. Madam chair. Members of the board. Also, the city council at large, make a clarity. And then we'll be able to do that. And then we'll be able to do that. The council has received opposition. Those five letters. The May's office. Talked about the concerns that the council receives. Similarly echo those concerns. That being said, the council is going to go right now position. We'll go to Melissa and then Joanne. Once I'm here to you briefly tell us if you're in support of opposition. I'm Melissa Brennan. My address is eight chestnut street. So I'm behind Lwood Street. I'm in opposition. I grew up at 11 Lwood Street. My mother still lives there. So she asked me to write a letter on her behalf to explain that. When we grew up there. We used to be able to park two cars at the top of Lwood Street because it's a very narrow street that can only fit one car. But then at the top, it gets a little wider by chestnut street. So I'm going to go to the next slide. I'm going to go to the next slide. I'm going to go to the next slide. I'm going to go to the next slide. I'm going to go to the next slide. Which is where I think you see that white pickup truck on the Google Earth image. About 25 years ago, the city put up fire lane signs and told us that we could no longer park there because it was a safety issue. So just thinking about the fact that we used to have parking there and now we don't. It seems that this would also be a safety issue. And then we would have a safety issue. And then the city would be able to turn, to make the turn into the driveway from a narrow street, unless you back up into the spot, which again, would then shine the lights, the headlights of the car upon entering and exiting into the very first floor of Lwood street, which is a build a bedroom. And then there is the issues that we talked about about how this would affect the street for snow removal lighting. And there's just a lot of questions and because you know the city has told us before their parking is not allowed here. We just think it should remain that way. Thank you. Yeah. Joanne. Hi. I live in 11, I live in Lwood street. It's actually 9 dash 11, I would street. It's not place. It's not quite a street. But anyhow. I'm opposed to it also again being with what Melissa said with the fire wrap around us. You know, I mean, fire truck. You need to make it up here. If you allow it, there's three other houses that live on comments, stand around comments, but have back yards on Lwood street. So if this goes through with the three other people that have back yards on Lwood street, want to cut the whole sidewalk up. So that's my that's a real concern that I have. Yeah, what's good for once you'd be good for all correct. I mean, I think it already has the driveway 22 comments to the Sullivan. She has way bigger property than then, then, um, keep the parry's out. She has heard back yard is totally different. And she got that 2022 years ago. That's how far long it's been there. I feel bad, but you want to host another spot. I have a lot of breathing issues and you know, I'm not think I can't even get a I hate to cap spot on Lwood street because it's a fire issue. So I mean, if anyone should get a spot and live to my whole life, I can't breathe. I can't walk up my stairs. So I'm just totally opposed to this L street was a little quiet street. And one of the houses on the right side or like in the historical foundation, they ran this year, they got the plaque on when they were built. So it's going to be more commercial, commercially, because if you like the parry's to this, who's to say that three other houses on Cormons street that have back yards on Lwood. Thank you. Thank you. I have no additional license. Okay. But does the applicant want to respond to that? Scott, let me take this. In terms of snow removal. I guess we hadn't thought that one through, but the solvents do have a snowblower. And I guess I can talk to them to figure out how they removed their snow. So I feel like we can shovel off the front or walk just like people shovel off the front walk and shovel off the back walk. In terms of cutting off the whole backside walk, there's 22, 23 and 24 are the only ones that have a backyard. And the other side of us, it's a house, there's no yard there. So the only other person that would be able to cut up the backyard would be number 23. His name is Sue. And as I currently know, she's a single woman and is not looking to do that. I can't speak for her though. So really it would just be my back patio and the patio next to us that actually have a backyard on the backside of Cormons street. In terms of safety. This is something we thought about. I mean, people drive up and down that street all the time. I think those white trucks are seeing are actually people's construction workers. So if anything, I know people are wrapping up and down the street all the time. And we're just looking to pull into our back patio in terms of lights. We would be perfectly willing to turn the lights off and keep them dim at night. I can talk to people what across from 22. Common street to see what they do when they pull in and out. But I know, you know, they have two or three cars parked their back there sometimes. In safety, I have three kids. They're playing basketball basketball out there all the time. They live in that alleyway. So if anything, we are very well aware of the safety. Thank you, Miss Perry. Any other questions from the board. I can't see you guys, but hearing hearing none. May I have a motion? I'm going to make a motion for approval. I think the pick review will deal with whether or not this maneuverability and other issues are going to be a concern. But I think from a zoning standpoint, my motion is to approve. Is there a second? Second. I'm sorry, Mr. Stembridge. Yeah. Sorry, Miss Canado. I'm sorry, Miss. The chair. I know the chair opposes because this is the, this is not the backyard of everybody. It may be their backyard, but everyone else on the other side of the wood is that was their front yard. And I guess that I don't. I have concerns about it being a very small street. So with that, the motion does not carry. I think that's just for clarity. What, what is the follow-up process for us with the pick or to pursue with the pick or just as a follow-up knowing that you're not approving. I will ask of your. Thank you. Well, aside that if the board wants to put another motion, they can. If there's, if there's no other motion to die at this point. I'll leave that that right now. There's another month. We're not the pick. You have to follow up separately with them. All right. What about a motion to defer and to see if you can work this out with your neighbors. We have a second. Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yeah. Miss. Panato. Yes. I think that's the same. I think that's the same. We're also votes. Yes. Motion carries. We can add to further this. This September, 21st. That's still a subcommittee day. Okay. Thank you. And in the meantime. Yeah, I think I think determining whether maneuverability is going to be an issue and the pick will denied anyway is something you can do in the meantime. Okay. Next. Next. We have case B.O.A. 144529. The address of 16 Wayne Street. Is the applicant and where they represent the president. Hi. I'm Jennifer DeBose 16th Wayne Street. I've been fighting this battle since 2015. I'm seeking a curve cut out. Far drive a legal driveway. I have been talking there over 25 years in a way jumping the curve. So I applied for a curve cut out and I was deferred because of the inadequate space. They say. I had to be there because I had a tree there and also I had a light pole there. I had the tree stump removed. But I was waiting to get approved from the war before I asked the city of pay the city to have the light. Remove. I have. I have. I have. I have. And as far as I know, majority are my neighbors support me. Any questions from the board? Um, the skin. So the city said that you need to remove the tree or stump, which you have them. I had the truest remove, but I have to pay the city. I have to pay the city. But I have to pay the city to have it. Replace, not remove but replace somewhere else on the street. Reloaded. Relocate it is the proper word. Yes. That's the only question I have. I have to pay the city. Can you tell me the dimensions of that driveway, the width. The width. It's between my neighbor. I. I have. Seven. I have. Yeah. I mean, the park is. Yeah, I find I mean, there is a. There's also a light pole to that would have to be relocated. Yes, that is correct. Okay, so that's also going to go to the public improvement commission. For their review. But I think as far as zoning is concerned, I don't have any questions. I have a question. I have a question. I have a question. Yes. Good evening, Madam Chair, members of the board, Keisha Santana with the mayor's office and neighborhood services. I mean, a butters meeting was held on May 3rd, where the butters express general support. The applicant presented to the Highland Park neighborhood coalition on June 13th, where they express support as well. There was only one the direct a butter on 14 that express concern over the driveway going to the park. And at this time, we would like to defer adjustment to the board. Thank you. Madam Chair, I have no raised hands. That may have a motion. I'll make a motion to approve. Do you have any providers about pick? Well, I think that it's going to go to the pick anyway, because so I can say it, you know, it's going to get further reviewed by public improvement commission. And you can see that the panel is expanding the light pole. May I have a second? Second. Mr. Sambridge. Yes. Mr. Panato. Yes. Chair also votes yes motion carries. Good luck. Can I ask one question please? Yes, ma'am. So do I have to approach to the have the light. I don't know how they are. Do you know the answer to that as far as the pit part of this? That I'm not sure I don't believe Jean put a 5-0 on that but there's a light post kind of in the way. I think it's possible to put a driveway in that. Is that correct? I've been talking there with the light pole but it would be much easier if the pole wasn't there. But I've been squeezing it for a long time. Yeah and I think the public improvement commission has to review this and approve that before you can do a curb cut. So I don't know the procedure for getting in front of the public improvement commission but they will review it for maneuverability and they are the ones that are allowed to sort of move things like light poles. Yeah you may want to leave them to us. That's not our purview. Yeah but what is your next step then? You have to go to the public improvement commission and I don't know the process for that. You'll have to talk to the BPDA should be able to tell you that. Okay thank you. Next case. Next we have case B-O-A 146-3532. Excuse me. The address of three to five, Zatra Street is the applicant and or the representative. All right can you raise your hand if you're on for this proposal? Okay go on the panelist you can unmute yourself stand. Okay can you hear me? Yes sir. Okay I'm here for three five Zatra Street. I think I've worried about what I'm going to buy for the application. It's an existing dormitory. It's already there. I'm not changing the footprint of the room at all. What it is is the sidewalls go up four feet that goes to a shingle roof. All I'm doing is just pushing the sidewalls up four more feet. There's a headroom there and putting the flat roof on there. It's not extending out one inch past where it was before. All left the right there's no increase the room size at all. It's only just at a headroom. Okay. Any question from the board? No questions plans are adequate. Okay. Would that may we have public testimony? Yes Madam Chair members of the board. Connor Newman with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. This time the mayor's office likes to defer to the judgment of this board. We the applicants circulate a flyer to a butters within 300 feet. We did not receive any letters of support or opposition without defer to the board. Thank you. Yeah. Madam Chair I have no raised hands. Okay. Would that that may have motion? I'll make a motion to approve. May I have a second? Second. This is theembridge. Yes. Ms. Panato. Yes. Chair also votes yes motion carries. Good luck. Next we have case case B.O.A. 146 2924. The address of 25 first street. Is the applicant and will they represent the president? Yes. Thank you. Cameron Merrill Merrill and McGuirey business address 100 state street Boston massages. At this time while we did have a very positive public process numerous letters of support from all of butters all direct to butters JP zoning etc. We did receive a note this week that B.T.D. was concerned about 14.9 as opposed to 18 feet on those parking spaces. Frankly the intention was just to make a straight drive into their garages where they have EV vehicles. So it really was not their intention to park there anyways but they were asked to draw parking spaces on but that being said the original plans didn't have parking. It was just the existing driveway that's been there since 2000 but that being said we do want to try and iron out those issues with B.T.D. to satisfy the board before we move forward and would ask to defer. Okay are you looking at a specific date or a heavier what's the early state? We could use the 10th or 21st if they need more time they could be at over 26. Mr. Merrill. Let's do the October date because I believe we're going to have to revise the plan to draw spaces with greater depth. All right would that may have a motion? Motion to defer. May I have a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Ms. Pannato. Yes. Chair also votes yes motion carries. See you then. Thank you very much. Just a reminder it's October 26. Okay. Thank you. Sorry was it the September date or October 26? You said right? October 26th of the day. Okay thank you. Sorry I didn't hear you. Appreciate it. Thank you. Next we have case B.O.A. 145. Yes. 463. The address of the 21-logged lane is the applicant and the representative. Yes good evening Madam Chair members of the board. John D. Barry with the law office at 1154 1156. Dorchester Ave I represent the owners Lee Shen and Samantha and with me on this project is Douglas Ruther who actually created the plans. Disproposal is basically a proposal to create a second floor addition on the existing structure. There's no change in the current footprint. The proposal includes a roof structure modification as per the plans which essentially as part of the addition they're looking to the roof structure is going to slightly change and more so they're going to be adding solar panels to the roof. There's only one violation that was cited. It is the rear yard. It's insufficient. It's a pre-existing non-conformance. Whatever is in control of the drawings if you want to pull down to a zero dot d one I think that that one right there. I think this best can highlight to the board the hardship or the difficulties with the site. As you can see there the 40-foot rear yard set back ultimately lands in the top quarter of the existing structure. So in order to do anything at this site that we're requesting as far as the addition that we do need a variance for that pre-existing non-conformance. We did have a good community process. There was no opposition to the proposal. I'm assuming that someone is going to be here from the neighborhood from the opposite neighborhood services. But with that if I can just highlight it's basically going to be a renovation a little minor remodeling inside and really the second floor addition is going to allow for an extra bedroom bathroom. The couple celebrated a new child they need the additional space. With that I guess I defer to the board if there's any questions with the proposal and with the plans. Thank you. Are there any questions from the board? No questions the plans are adequate. May I have public testimony please? Yes Madam Chair members of the board Connor Newman with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. The sound mayor's Office looks like to defer to the judgment of the board. As you heard from the applicant's representation there was a constructive community process where the proponent worked with a rear a butter on some concerns. They went on to meet with the Jamaica Hills Neighborhood Association which voted not to oppose and they ultimately received support from the Jamaica Plain Neighborhood Council. With that we'll defer to the board at this time. Thank you. Thank you. I have no raised hands. With that may I have a motion? I'll make a motion to approve with BPD a design review. May I have a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Ms. Pemato? Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Thank you Madam Chair members of the board. Have a nice night. Next we have two companion cases first being BOA 144 8731 for the address of 150 Chestnut Avenue. Second being case BOA 144 8704 for the address being 152 152 H Chestnut Avenue. The applicant and were represent represent the present. Second is a raise to raise stands here. Grace and Jeff. I have your own for this proposal. Yes. Can you hear me? Yes. Yes. 150 Chestnut is here and Jeff is also present. I believe. Thank you. One of you. Welcome to our Mr. or what? I'm Jeff. If you're on the right is that they're going to go. Join us. I'm going to mute yourself when you become a panelist. I'm huge. Okay. I'm sorry for this blanket. Okay. It might make you can hear me now. And this? Yes. Yes. Okay. Good. All right. These are. This is the suggestion of inspection services. We're combining these two cases. The reason is that they share a property line and there's a relocation of a common passageway. This is on a one way street with parking on the opposite side, not on this side. The proposal for 150 is to add a one packing space next to the house. On the on the side of the existing walkway that's eight feet by 18 feet. And for 152, it's to legalize two existing parking spaces that have been there for at least 40 years and probably 45 or 50 years. I've owned the property since 1983. And we have in this on these slides to illustrate the locations and the each proposal. Can you can you let the ambassador in the board? Yes. Yes. It shows the existing conditions on the street. And there are we kind of 14 parking spaces available on the opposite side of the street. We did a survey and found there are 21 dwelling in us with no off street parking. And in addition, the city of. Boyle's in street, which runs perpendicular is going to have a parking bicycle lanes added so there will be a reduction of. And parking along Boyle's in street creating additional pressure on. Chestnut Avenue for the few existing spaces. This is also as noted in earlier slide very close to the Stony Brook MBTA station. So there's a real is a big demand for parking. So can you go to the next. And can someone turn off the lights? Okay. This shows the existing conditions. And with the 152 is a property in that is on a flag a lot. It doesn't have any really perimeter land, except for the space in front where the previous owner apparently put in this this concrete flatwork driveway. And 150 was a house was built earlier in front. Okay. And this shows it photographically. And there was a garden space and back behind this. So this is not just having parking and building behind it. There is a much larger planted area behind the existing parking area. So so you're essentially doing two curb cuts for three parking spaces. No, there's an existing curb cut now for 152, which is a city issued in 1997. Yeah, so there would be three, there would be two curb cuts. If this goes through two curb cuts, three parking spaces. And that's a little bit of a concern. The other concern is there's a street poll. Also. Can you tell us where that is? Yes, if you're looking on this plan is shown between the two curb cuts. And that may need to be relocated. We had some preliminary discussions with public works. And they had indicated that that may need to be relocated and we're aware of that. Also, the curb cuts are separated and there is a relocated walkway. So this is not only a sea of parking. It does have a five foot passageway with a three foot walkway. So it's a little bit more important to have some borders separating the parking spaces. Yeah, from a planning perspective, though, we we care about the pedestrian environment. And that multiple curb cuts sort of interfere with the pedestrian. You know, sidewalk access. This is also, as you noted, you know, within a few blocks of the Stony Brook T station or whatever, the MBTA is right there. So the preparatory service was too costier and that did not pay what it's a tool for the parking spot. To find out where they can do it. This one is. I think I say the two steps I've seen there. I thought 80-years-old town was it's the youngest community and that is one of the sub entente tents. So point way. two separate ownerships. That's why this for 150 the proposal which is illustrated in this magenta call is to add one space for 150. Right. In the other two are existing. If 152 is a four unit property, four apartments and there are two spaces in front. Yeah, I mean, I see what you're doing, but I think that we are reluctant to add additional curb cuts for for one space and it just doesn't really fit within the context of this type of neighborhood, which is really a transit oriented location. Okay, if we could stroll ahead in some of the slides to show prevalent conditions, I mean, this is all pre-automotive neighborhood. This is shows the relocated walkway and the existing spaces which would be narrowed in size to keep the landscaping next to 154 chestnut. And we can go ahead beyond this, please, of the slides. And that's why the file can cut this. It shows the existing condition now from the front porch of 152 looking out to the street. Yeah, and if I could add and the property on our for 150 chestnut, we would like to do the projects together. So we use some impermeable pavers, environmentally friendly reduced street runoff, installed on electric car hookup. So we certainly have the neighborhood in mind as we think about this. It's very much so in the approval of the street. I think we've got about 20 signatures in support of the notion and in support of the permit. Okay, yes, if we could go ahead, other slides, a few other slides, just to show quickly. This again, this shows some images of reason why this only co-refusal. The next one, please, is for 152. That's the existing parking lot is in abysmal condition for 152. So aesthetically, this would be a big improvement as well. And if we go on, beyond this, we have two slides here showing in the media vicinity of similar conditions with curb cuts that are prevalent off throughout this neighborhood, spring, back down to you. Right, the fact that it's prevalent doesn't make it a desirable condition from a pedestrian sidewalk activity. I think that's the concern from a planning perspective. Having all these park, you know, and pedestrians having to walk and watch for cars coming and going, and the difference in grade, all of that is a pedestrian issue that we, you know, is part of our job to be cognizant of. I would like to add also that on the other side of the street, there isn't uninterrupted pedestrian sidewalks. So there are definitely options for pedestrians as well. And I appreciate the concern, too. Okay, and then following two slides also, please, the last two that we have, there's one more slide showing with other images. And we have 22 signatures of support from residents in the surrounding in Davis. And we had, is I believe you'll hear and comment a on-site neighborhood meeting and with the neighborhood council as well, we had meetings. So maybe we would come to sleep. Sorry, I think it would help to have public comment and then circle back for you to respond to that. Thank you. Yeah, so Jessica. Oh, I have no raised hands at the moment. If onus is on it, go ahead. Is Owen S. I guess. Yep. Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, on our new member with the mayor's types of neighborhood services. This time the mayor's office looks deferred to the judgment of this board. Some background information on the community process as you heard from the the property owners. We had constructive meetings. As they mentioned, they've received many signatures in support and they went on to the JPMC, which also voted to support. Neighbors really pleased to hear about the commitment to use permeable pavers as well as the commitment to make sure that the installation would be attractive to the broader community. With that, we'll defer to the board. Thank you. Okay. I have no raised hands. Mr. Stembridge, do you want to read BTD's opinion into the regard? Excuse me, Madam Chair. You have it. Sorry. Well, BPD or BTD. BTD, they sent some recommendations, but not on everything. Please. Please. Mr. Domingo wrote 150 and 152, 152, 22H, Chessna, Chessna Avenue, 2019. 150 Chessna Avenue works okay. 152 to 152, H also works okay and the curb cut is already in place. Finally, there is no parking on this side of Chessna Avenue, which is one way to make the before we move on to assembly. Please suggest a proof because BPDA will be. Yes, the BPDDA recommendation that is concerning. Yeah, if you want to read theirs, I just want to have both on the record just so that we wrote before people make decisions. For 150 Chessna Avenue for BPDA, the recommendation and reference to BOA 144-8731, the Boston Planning and Development Agency will recommend to Nile without prejudice, suggesting that the opponent consider relocating the walkway without the addition of the parking space. For 150 to 152 to H, Chessna Avenue, BPDA's recommendation in reference to BOA 144-8730, the Boston Planning and Development Agency recommends to Nile. So, with that, are there any other questions from the board? If not, can I have a motion? If I may say one comment, please, if I may, about. Yes, the final comment, please. Yes, thank you. We were here about three years ago with a proposal, all three spaces were aggregated together. At that time, there was a denial without prejudice and asked us to explore a separating zone. So, that's why we came, this is a better proposal because there's no overlap of a third space. And the two existing spaces that I, as I said, have been there for over 40 years. Thank you. 152, yes. Okay, would that have a motion? I'd like to make motion now without prejudice. Second. Okay, Mr. Stumberidge. Mr. Panato. Yes. Yes. I, so before I make my vote, can I understand what is different that the two of you would want them to reconsider so that they can do something different with the stew up? I think it's just more an issue of, you know, allowing for additional curb cuts and parking. So, what curb cut for one space is not something we typically approve. And, you know, and I think in locations, this close to the transit lines, we are discouraging additional parking. And given that they have variances, the triggers variances, we have, you know, purview over that. I'm not sure what, but if they, if there is some way they can take you to these concerns, then I'd like to, that's why I made motion. Okay. Yeah, I mean, I, I hate, I mean, to continue a bad condition of front yard parking is not something that we, that sort of, I think we should be doing from a, from a planning perspective. Understood. And I hate kicking this up to the full board, but where BTT is not concerned about this, I, I, and the fact that they're not actually taking away on street parking, because there is none on the side of the street, and it being very wide street, I have to oppose. I'm a motion. So, we need another motion. Madam Chair, I may suggest that you think it requires a full board here, and you could defer to the September 20th, the next full board of the, September 26th here. Would someone like to consider that motion? Like to make a motion to defer. I'm sorry, August 20th. Okay. I like to make a motion. Are you loading onto my August case load? Good God. Okay. I'd like to make a motion to defer this case to August, August 29th. Can I have a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Ms. Panato. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. See you then. And just so we understand what explicitly are we looking to do on the 29th? You're representing to the full board, because the subcommittee is unable to come to agreement. So you're representing the same case. And just so you know, the BPDA recommendation is a denial. And so their recommendations are going to go to the full board as well. Okay. Yes. Okay. That was a surprise to us. Given that there are some curb cuts in single space parking being installed right now. Okay. We're moving on. We're moving on. You can read that at the next year. I'm going to thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Next we'll move on to case BOA 144 2575. The address of 644 South Street. Is the applicant's and when they represent it. Hi, can you raise a hand if you're on for this proposal? Oh, they're on the panelist. I'm you can unmute yourself. Okay. Can you hear us? Yes. Go ahead. Yes. Go ahead. Okay. Hello. Hi. My name is Owen Riley. This is Darling Donovan. We live at 6464 South Street in Roslanddale. And we have a proposal to widen the curb cut, pre-existing curb cut, to allow us to use two parking spaces that have been there since the 1960s. In fact, when we moved in, there were three parking spaces. And they were all covered with a broken tarmac. And we replaced that with reduced it. So we created more of a front yard than existed when we moved in. We did landscape it. We did put in stone pavers and a little decorative fence to reduce it to two. So what we are seeking is to extend the curb cut to allow these two spaces to be used. That's that simple premise. So just to confirm with with the existing curb cut, you are unable to use both spaces. You're not able to drive it to that. That is correct. There is a curb cut. But our neighbor also has a driveway. And we the curb cut is on our property. Although the denial notice, I don't know why it says it's for his property, his use. It's I don't understand that it's on our property. But we are seeking to move that existing radius stone further so that we can park in both spaces that exist in our property, not just one. Oh, we've gotten tickets for our car being in the space that's not near the curb cut. Right. So even we only have one car. Right. Right. We've had we've twice had a summons tickets. We've we've appealed both of that in both cases. The we've been told that's okay. One case based that was improperly issued. And the other one said that well, you can park in the space that has the curb cut, but not the other one. So we are wanting to have two curb cuts. We're not taking away any parking from the street. There's no obstacles in front of the building to be moved. And again, it's been this has been used this way since the 1960s. We're just trying to make it, you know, clear that we can use it and stop having to fight tickets. Because it's one way, um, right. This it's a one way street as well. There's no parking lot outside, right? And how how wide is this proposed curb cut? It would be 9.5 9 feet 5 inches. So my project description saying you're widening. So the total width of the curb cut would be the new one or the one that's already there. It would be 28 and a half width. Yeah, which is a huge curb cut for two cars. Yeah, that is 20.4. Yeah, but my notes say 28.5, too. And that's what I saw when I looked at the plan. We don't even if you look at the plan. Yeah, the plan say 28.5. Um, which is a which is a huge curb cut. Well, I think I'm not sure how this how the plan is driving up on our neighbors next store. Have the 28. Yeah, because there's a driveway. Yeah, it's our neighbors property. Right, right. Right. I mean, it's a similar situation as we have before. This is an existing nonconforming front yard parking, which is something we wouldn't, you know, we wouldn't approve going forward, but it's an existing nonconforming use of that front yard to be parking in your front yard. And the problem is this is going to, you know, exacerbate that condition. What I'm just curious, what about the the grandfathering clause? We have, we can, we have one after David in the record and we can, we've been trying to get other after David's and evidence from cryroaders that can confirm. And yes, it's asked to use for this purpose. And we have a photo, a date stamp photo showing that's been used prior to the change of generate. Thanks to me too. Does that carry anyway? I don't know. I don't, I don't know the answer to that question. The 16.6 clearly said you can. You can show praise and conditions. You can use it. You can use it as is because it's a pre existing nonconforming, but you were asking to expand the curb cut, which exacerbates, right? Well, if you would be, we'd be perfectly happy to not have the curb cut if we had some kind of guarantee the city would stop issuing us tickets. We're not a charge of BTD. I know. I can ask. I can ask for the issue of the curb cut is again, it's a pedestrian issue of having curb cuts, which allows more cars to come and go. And again, this is another situation where you're, you know, within five minute walk to a MBTA station. And we are, we're 15. We are 15 minute walk from a train station. And it's one way street. It's not on a commuter path to get to the train station at all. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Can I ask a follow up question? So just to clarify, do you currently have a curb cut that you are appropriately using for one, but you're using it for two spots versus one? So is the issue that you get, you're being cited because you're using it for two or just even when you're using it for one? Well, the two, the two citations we've had so far, the photo we received with the citation had our car on the part that didn't have the curb kind. So the two, we have two spaces. The curb cut only covers one of our spaces. And then as well as the neighbors driveway, those, that's where the curb cut is there. We had used the other space without the curb cut and we're getting tickets from, you know, in both times we, we, we fought and won in both cases. That's one car. We just did this one car or with two groups. One car. We want to be able to drive it and park anywhere, but we have to park right in front of the curb cut or we get a ticket. They got to, they got to, they got the tickets because the car was parked in the space without the curb cut. Yes sir. So that's what I'm trying to look for. An alternative to your 28.5 request, which is whether or not you just relocated to the spot where you actually want your car. Well, remember the 28.5 is, that's our neighbors that doesn't have to do it. It's in the middle of both of our properties. He has half of it and we have the other half. Right. So I think they want to park two cars. I see. We want to be able to have two cars parked there because we do have guests and people coming over. While we only have one car, it's, we want to have the two and again, not worried about getting at that $300 surprise in the mail for something that was, you know, I would, I would use just without the curb cut. Right. Even if we just moved over a little bit, our neighbors have been incredibly supportive because we have a problem in that this across the street very few people have driveways because it's up. So they can't have driveways and they feel that, you know, the more people that can park off of the street than they can have a parking spot because across the street where there's parking, there's hardly any driveways because the land goes up. Let's, let's have some public testimony first. Good evening, Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is Diana Bronchuk. I'm with the mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services, Rosalind L.E.s on. These folks had fired a butters within 300 feet for two weeks. They connected with the lower Washington South Street neighborhood group. We have received multiple letters of support. And at this time, we defer a judgment to the board. Thank you. Do you have a raised hand here? One second. Steve? Steve? Steve gag? Yes. I live at 631 South Street. My name is Steve gag. And I've lived here for 37 years. I raise my family here. I know Darleen and Owen. And I know they're dilemma very well because many people on our street have gotten ticketed for the very same thing. Although there is this is pretty unusual in that they have this curb cut. And then the neighbor has part of it as well. There's no parking on their side of this street. So the issue of parking, I understand, is not a problem. But I'm taking up a parking spot. But this issue of pedestrian safety, I understand that they have one car. They very seldom have a need for a second parking spot. I know them well enough to know that. So from a neighborhood perspective, when somebody's been a leader in the North South Street neighborhood association for as many years as I've lived here, this is not a problem. And nobody should be getting a $300 ticket for this bizarre scenario that we have here with a curb cut being shared with the neighbor. So I would beg the committee here to look at this from a standpoint of a neighbor that's been very good to all of us here. And thank you. Be concerned about pedestrian safety. But I don't think we've got a real major issue here on it. So thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. Gag. I'm no additional raised hands. OK. Any other questions from the board? I'd like to hear either the BPD or the BTD comments. Yeah, you can read them both into the record. You have it. For BPD or 644 South Street and reference the BOA 144575 of Boston Planning and Development Agency recommends tonight. From the BPD or 644 South Street, South Street is a one-way street that has no parking on the side. Also, there are many homes that already have front yard parking. Finally, the curb cut is already in place. BPD suggests to prove the BPD, BPD, A. I believe. All right. Thank you. OK. With that, may I have a motion? I would like to make a motion of approval with BPD and BPD. May I have a second? I'll make a second. OK. With that, Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Parnato? Yes. Oh, you're on mute, Cherry. Oh, I'm so sorry. I have a giggling child in the back line. I was trying to not offend you all. The chair also votes yes to motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Thank you. Next, we have case BOA 103-3851. The address being 35 Rockwood Street in the applicant and when they represent the president. You've been in here. Yes. Good evening, Attorney David Click on behalf of the applicant or the homeowner, Julie Kuhn. I am just reaching out with regards to this request for relief from a zoning code refusal letter from I believe it was honored about July of 2019 in relation to an Article 55 Section 9 violation, which is maintaining a deck within 10 feet of the rear setback at my client's property, 35 Rockwood Street in JP. At this time, what you're looking at are unfortunately, they are predated plans of what's otherwise a pre-existing deck that's with the exception of some nominal expansion due to the inclusion of some composite materials onto the deck, which are shown on the architectural drawing here, that it's been in existence since honor about 1976, 1977. So what has occurred, though, is that there is an encroachment of if you go up to the actual existing site plan that is on the slide above. Really, the only issue here is with regards to what you can see at the top, the rear lot, which shows the deck, and it shows that it's encroaching over onto a direct debutters property at two Rockwood Terrace. There is a revised plan showing that since the initiation of this appeal, there's since been an agreement between the owner of two Rockwood Terrace and my client to essentially have a landswap of 35 square feet between each, which that revised plan shows. I've submitted it, however, unfortunately, I was informed that my submittals, which include the zoning code refusal letter, this pre-existing plan, the updated plan, as well as some historical photos in the architectural drawings, just wasn't provided in time for the hearing. So I just would ask for a deferral or a brief deferral date in order to come back before the advisory board to further discuss the relief. OK. I'll make a motion to defer. I thank you. I would say we have gone before an butter. We actually had two letters at that time. Thank you. OK. OK. I have a second. Madam Jam, the next referral day would be September 21, this would be a seven-committee date. OK. All right. Do I have a second? A second. OK. Mr. Stumberidge. Yes. Ms. Panato. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. See you then. OK. Thank you. Thank you. Next, we have case B-O-A, 143, 1740. To address a loving from road street. Is the applicant and or their representative present? Good afternoon. Attorney Anthony Ross, 343 Belgrade Avenue in Rosendale. I'm appearing on behalf of the unit one owners, Alan Clark and Lata, Caligritis. Unit one is the lower unit and the two unit condominium that was renovated and converted to a condominium in 2020 and 21. At the end of the renovation process, just as the occupancy certificate was being issued, the building inspector noticed that finishing the part of the basement that belongs to unit one as a playroom, family room resulted in the FAR violation. The finished basement area is connected to unit one by a dedicated stairway. The ceiling height and windows are all code compliant. The basement area is one large room with a bathroom and a utility equipment closet and laundry. There are no closets for storage and the basement will not be used as a bedroom. Prior to finishing the basement at this property, the FAR was 0.54, slightly above the allowed FAR 0.50. With the finished basement area, the living area of the building would increase by approximately 640 square feet and result in an FAR of about 0.65. This is not out of character for the area as there are other properties on the street with similar FARs or even greater. There's no exterior work proposed. And respectfully, we do not consider the requested variances to present any intrusion to the neighborhood with surrounding community. And we would ask that the variances be allowed so that Allen and Lata can make better use of their home. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Can you talk about how do you access, is the basement accessible to the outside? Or do you have to go up through the stair? No. The way the site slopes down towards the rear, there's a walk out. So there's a couple steps up and there's a full walk out. So you can go from the basement area to the rear yard to the first living level of unit one. OK, and what's the ceiling height in that basement? I do not know the exact ceiling height, but I know that it is code compliant. So I've been in there, I would say it's at least 7 feet. OK, thank you. OK, but that may we have public testimony? Good evening, Madam Chair and members of the board. This is Diana Brancheck with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. We held in a butters meeting on May 22 that only had one of butter attending. We connected the project representative connected with the Longfellow Area Neighborhood Association that decided to not hear more on the project. I've received no letters of opposition nor support. At this time, we defer judgment to the board. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, we have no other stands. Madam Chair, I'm to the board of Paul Sullivan, City Council Gladden, make a clarity. Councilor Arden, support. With that, may I have a motion? I will make a motion to approve with no building code release. May I have a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Ms. Pnato. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Next, we have case VOA 1472415. The address being 351 Vermont Street. Is the applicant and or their representative present? Yes, Mr. Stembridge. Hello, Madam Chair. I'm as a board. My name is Attorney Justin Burns from Polgenean, Norton Business Address, 10 Forbes Road, Brain Tree, Massachusetts. I'm here on behalf of the owners of the property at 351 Vermont, Ellen and Ken Golden. Just for reference, the zoning in this district is 1F6000. And the lot size of this specific lot is 5,000, the existing 5,000 square feet, I should say. The existing dwelling on this property is a two-family dwelling. This project is a proposal to construct an addition onto that existing two-family. The proposal will include a first floor addition that will contain a mudroom, rear entry for the first floor unit, handicap bathroom, a deck, and a handicap access ramp. The rest of the addition will include two second floor decks and the construction of a third floor, which will be comprised of four bedrooms, two bathrooms, and a balcony. The total size of this addition will be 1,392 square feet, which will bring the total size of the structure to 3,654 feet. The reason for the changes on the first unit for the second floor is the goldens want to make it easier to access their home as they get older, hence the handicap bathroom and the handicap access ramp in order to get into the home. As for the changes to the second floor and the creation of a third floor, the goldens are seeking to have their son and their daughter-in-law moving with them with their three children. As currently constructed, the second floor unit only has two bedrooms. So the expansion to a third floor to be able to move those two bedrooms up to the third floor and add an additional to accommodate the family is necessary. Just to move us quickly through our violations, we were cited for max FAR. The required is 0.4, we're at 0.73. Rear yard setback, the required is 30 feet. We are at 20.2 feet and 29.6 feet. The side yard setback, which is required at 10.9 feet, we are at 4.11. The maximum building height is 2.5 stories. We are at three stories, but I feel it's worth mentioning that maximum building height is 35 feet and we're at 32.8 feet. And also usable open space we are offering 13.16, one, 13,000, sorry, apologize. 1316 square feet per unit is the required number and we're proposing 1,198 square feet per unit. We're also cited for off street parking, the parking location. This property is located on the corner of Vermont Street and Francesca Street. So it technically has two front yards, one on Vermont, one on Francesca. The parking will not change as currently constructed. There are two parking spots on an existing curb cut coming off of Francesca Street and Street. That's not changing its thing in the same spot. And also we were cited for extension of the non-forming use as it's a two family to want families out. Just a quick note on the community process. We did a full community process. We'll hear that from O and S. That's so good. Sorry, apologize. Well, in that case, I'll pause for a question. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Can you go back to the basement plan? I don't see anything in the basement. Is there any current use or proposed use of the basement? I do not believe so. It's just the reflores that I referenced to this through the company. OK. All right. No other questions? With that, can we hear from O and S and anyone else on the public process? Sorry to take your job away. No, I don't want to. Justin, that's fine. Please, feel free. That's welcome. But no, we had our, we had our butter's meeting on June 14. The abutting neighbors had no opposition to the only questions they had were around the construction time, which obviously we can't figure out until, you know, when we get through the ZBA. But we also had the West Rocks for Neighborhood Council meeting on June 27, this past unanimously. With that, we defer adjustments to the board. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Paul Sol, and the City Council of the Athletic Library, Councilor Wolzenpress, the public process, having known no, no, an opposition, the Council elected to run, reckon up in support. Thank you. Go to Courtney and then Kevin. Hi, good evening. Courtney Golden, actually the daughter-in-law of Ken and Ellen. This is the reason why we would like to do this is we would like- Sorry, I'm sorry. Nah, not to cut you off, but we obviously know you're in support of it. We just want to hear from other abutters at this time. Kevin, are you in a butter? Yes. Go ahead. Like Kevin, calling three, four, three, four, one, three. We do directly across the street, and we are in support of this. Thank you. Thank you. I have no additional resistance. Excellent. Any, will that may have a motion? I'll make a motion to approve with BPDs, a design review and no building code relief. May I have a second? Second. Okay, Mr. Semberidge. Yeah. Mr. Panado. Yes. Chair also votes yes, motion carries. Good luck. Thank you very much. Have a nice seat. And next, the last one of us, we have case B08, 147, 699, 970, with the address of 16-Lial. Dial, yeah. Dial street. Thank you. Is the applicant and the representative? Yep. And just to confirm, folks can hear me. Yes, sir. Thank you. Good evening, Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is Tom Bern, along with my wife, Jen, we're the owners of 16-Lial Street. We've lived in our home for almost four years now and really love living in this neighborhood. My wife is a pediatric nurse practitioner at a local medical practice and takes care of many of the kids in the neighborhood. So we feel very much a part of this community and want to raise our children in this neighborhood. But with the growing family, just our feeling is that we need a little bit more space in our home. And so we're planning on pursuing a project that made the most sense given the layout of our home, which is to add dormers to the attic, to turn the attic, and to usable living space for us. We're also proposing to finish the basement. But that would be really just used as a laundry room in storage space. The basement, as it stands now, is sort of roughly finished already. There's flooring and kind of deteriorate. There's some framed walls and deteriorating particle boards. So we'd sort of just be refreshing that space and using it as storage and laundry. We're not changing the footprint of the home at all. And the relief that we're seeking is for an excessive floor area ratio and exceeding the allowable number of stories. I also just want to note that the work to the attic would raise the height of the home by about one foot to 27.5 feet, which is still well below what we're zoned for here in this district. I also just want to note that the dormers that we're proposing to the attic are very much consistent with the character of the neighborhood. Many of the other homes in the neighborhood, including our closest to butter at 70 to an L street, have highly similar dormers. And prior to this meeting, I had shared with the board photos and sort of a map of abutting properties that have similar dormers. So with that, I thank the board for their time and welcome any questions about this project that Jen and I could answer. Thank you, Mr. Burns. Any questions from the board? And so that you're not intending to use the basement as living space? No, I know that it does say that on the original permit application, which was filed by the contractor. But it's really just, as I said, there's sort of flooring in there. And so it would just sort of be essentially replacing the sheet rock and replacing part of the flooring in the laundry room. But the plan is really just to use it as storage and a laundry room. OK, thank you. I think the proposed changes are pretty nominal. Any other questions? Karen, none? Can we have public testimony? Yep, five folks, Dan Hudson from MoNS here. We had our butter's meeting on June 8th. This was also presented at the June 27th West Rock's Poverty Council meeting. Neighbors had no questions. They were in support. We took good care of them to the board. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Paul Solvins here, Councilor Lajs, Michael Flaherty, Councilor Joe Reckon, and support. Madam Chair, we have no waste hands. With that, may I have a motion? I'll make a motion for approval with no building code relief. And the BPDA design review. OK, ma'am, a second. Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Is Pannato? Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. All right. Thank you. Thank you, members and staff. We'll see you next time. All right. Thank you.