 you you you State far too far behind~~~ 혈re increase the The new law allows the board to continue its practice of holding virtual hearings until March 2025. This hearing of the board is being held remotely via the Zoom webinar event background. This hearing is also being live screened. In order to ensure this hearing of the board is open to the public, members of the public may access this hearing through telephone and video conference. The information for connecting to this hearing is listed on today's hearing agenda, which is posted on the public notices page of the city's website, lostin.gov. Members of the public will enter the virtual hearing as attendees, which means you will not see yourself on the screen and you will be muted throughout unless administratively unmuted when asked to comment. Board members, applicants and their attorneys or representatives will participate in the hearing as panelists, and they will appear alongside the presentation material that went speaking. Panelists are strongly encouraged to keep video on while presenting to the board. As with our in-person meetings, comments and support will be followed by comments in opposition. The order of comments is as follows. Elected officials, representatives of elected officials, and members of the public. The chair may limit the number of people called upon to offer a comment and the time for commenting as time constraints are part. For that reason, the board prefers to hear from members of the public who are most impacted by a project, that is those individuals who live the process to the project. If you wish to comment on an appeal, please click the raise hand button along the bottom of your screen in the Zoom webinar platform. Click it again and your hand should go down. When the host sees your hand, you will receive a request to unmute yourself. Select yes and you should be able to talk. If you are connected to the hearing by telephone, please press star nine to raise and lower your hand. You must press star six to unmute yourself after you receive the request from the host. Those called upon to comment will be asked to state their name and address first and then provide their comment. In the interest of time and to ensure that you have enough time to do so, please raise your hand as soon as Mr. Stembridge, we see a address into the record. We will now raise your hand before the relevant address is called or the meeting post will not know to call on you at the appropriate times. Okay, Mr. Stembridge. Good morning, Mr. Valencia. Good morning, Madam Chair. Present. Good morning, Mr. Lannam. Good morning, Madam Chair. Present. Good morning, Ms. Wiel. Good morning, Madam Chair. Present. Good morning, Ms. Betapuraza. Good morning, Madam Chair. Present. Good morning. We just a note that we are a six member board today with that. I'll turn it over to Mr. Stembridge. Thank you, Madam Chair. We'll be given with the action scheduled for 9.30 a.m. The run two, which I will read both into the record one behind the other. But first is case B.O.A. 1163709 with the address of 16 to 84 St.ph. All three. Okay. Next, we have case B.O.A. 131 8050. The address of 94 in 3.3. And if anybody has any questions, we can raise them down. Otherwise, turn it over to Madam Chair. Thank you. May I have a motion to grant the request as the extension, as requested? I make the motion to grant the extension as read. Madam Chair, second. Second. Second. Madam Chair. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Lainon. Yes. Ms. Miewell. Yes. Ms. Berrazo. Yes. Chair votes yes. The motion carries. Madam Chair, this is Sam. Can we include the timeframe of which these extensions are different requested, which I assume is one year? Yes, ma'am. Do you want? Okay. Okay. All right. Next. Mr. Van Dyn. To the discussion of open meanwhile complaint. April 30th. April 30th. 44th. The hearing on 100th St. How far to. How far to. To. Be a case number B. Away. 157. Zero zero. Keep to. The R. T. Number of. 155. 9. Five. Three. Two. Okay. Number of. 155. Nine. Five. Three. Two. Four. Three. Okay. Are there questions from are we. Madam Chair. Yes. This is Carolina. I'm. How are you? Good. How are you? Welcome. Thank you. Happy to be here. So I can provide a quick statement about this and then I do many questions you couldn't certainly ask me. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. So a community group in Mission Hill alleged at the board violated the opening meeting law during the 100th St. Offances street hearing on April 30th, 2024. This was an article 80 project on a corner a lot in Mission Hill. With a permanent application could be addressed at 1558 tree monster street which is the current address of the existing building that will be then demolished to build a new building facing St. Offances street. The community group contains of the project went through the article 80 process at as 1558 tree monster but then at the ZVA hearing was presented as 100 state. Offances we recommend that the board refer this to ISD legal to research repair draft response on behalf of the board. We can then put this back on the agenda for June 20th and circulated draft response for your review and consideration before the June 25th here. Thank you. Parallel are there questions from the board? Hearing none. We have a motion to refer the complaint to ISD legal advisor to prepare a response on behalf of the board. We have a second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Ms. We will. Yes. Ms. Berbraza. Yes. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. The motion carries. Next we have the final offer to hearing. The 930. This is case of the O.A. It's B.O.A. 1 3 3 2 3 9 5. The address of 130 Parkwell Street. The address of the parkway. The parkway. Yes. Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board. Turni Maddacle with lecture tilted with the business address of 100 Franklin Street on behalf of the applicant. Mr. Frazier Allen was also on this morning. I believe Adam Glassman, the project architect, is also joining us. Just to go into a brief summary of what we're seeking here this morning. We have introduced the previously approved project to a single family dwelling. By way of brief background, this case was approved by the board to erect a new residential building at 130 Marginals Street in East Boston. Back in 2023, it was first approved on April 25th, 2023. At that time, the project was approved as a four-story residential building with four units and three parking spaces. My client, Mr. Allen, recently purchased the property and still desires to erect a residential building. However, he's seeking to reduce the size of the building in terms of both the unit count and the overall square footage. Specifically, as mentioned, he's seeking to erect a single family home with one parking space for his family to inhabit. The proposed reduction in size and scale in the building would eliminate the need for much of the previously granted release and shouldn't trigger any new violations. However, we would still need the side yard setback as previously granted on the right side because we're still maintaining a zero yards side setback on the right side. We believe this change will not only allow Mr. Allen to construct this building for his family, but as in line with the community's goals of maintaining single family homes and creating new single family homes. We believe the proposed structure will maintain the general character as previously presented and approved, but on a smaller scale by eliminating the fourth story and providing a larger rear yard setback so we can maintain some of the green and open space. With that, I'll happily pause and take any questions from the board if they have any. Thank you, Mr. Echo. Any questions from the board? Okay, Gary Nudden. We have a motion. Madam Chair, before motion approval. Madam second. Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Ms. Mewal. Yes. Mr. Bedford Raza. Yes. Chair also votes yes. The motion carries. Thank you very much. Next, we have a G card. Overlinked. Then G card and building code case. Which is case B 0A 157 6263. The address of 14 Clamont Park. And actually, which along with that, we have another case, which is B 0A 157 6262. Also, so the address of 14 Clamont Street. With the applicant and or the representative. Explain to the board. I guess I just in way of the phone companies. We are here to see believe on two items. One of them is the building code reviews on which is basically just putting a data. On to this building. And the side part of the relief is its own code violation, which is 14 Clamont, which is the groundwater recharge system that we plan to install about the building. This is a, this is currently multi-family building that we are changing to. Single family. We've been hired as the architect and contractor to build this building for a nice family that tends to be there. It's, it's size. It's going to be a full guide for model of the building. And, you put the shortest week. I'll let you ask any questions they may have. Thank you. Questions from the board. Okay, it was Mr. Somonelli on for the decont. Yes, Madam Chair. Good morning, Christian Somonelli. Boxing groundwater trust. And we have both. Let us from the. Hi. May I have a motion? Madam Chair, I would like to put forward a motion of approval with, with a proletzer that the plans be reviewed by Boston Lawrence, who are due to location and groundwater conservation of the lake district. And also that the project should receive a relief of the site of building co-bikes. What will need for the single family years? Is there a second? Okay. Madam Chair, there's two hands raised. Oh, I'm sorry. Yes, let's, let's hear them. Sandra, I said to request all of you. Good morning, Madam Chair and board. My name is Shonda Ikset and I am a resident at the Abedding Authority at 16 Claremont Park Unit Number 3, so the middle level. I have submitted a official letter of opposition to the proposals before the by Mr. Holland. Our ownership group, our each away of our building is extremely concerned about the proposals, including Mr. Holland and their groups. Claim that they are not expanding and altering the footprint of the building. Our review of these plans find that not to be true, including that they are planning on extending the back of the building by eight feet and building a forcefully. So we are all that will effectively impact all of the units in our building. I do want to ask some time for other owners of our group to speak, but I would request that the board please take time to review our letters of opposition prior to considering this. We are trying to be in touch with both the builder as well as the developer for this group. We are trying to be in touch with members of our each away, including each away board members have tried to be in touch with them with no reply, which is extremely frustrating to us. Up until this point, we wanted further clarification prior to this meeting and we have not received any return of our requests. Madam Mr. Holland with the group. So we kindly request that you please review our letters of opposition prior to by proving this. Thank you. Stephanie, did you say you had another raise hand? I think I will request all of you to. Hello, am I on muted? Yes, sir. Thank you for the opportunity to provide some comment. My name is James Benian. I'm a owner next door also in the building where Shandra is and I just wanted to echo her comments so that we are at 16 Claremont Park immediately, a body in 14. I'm aware that several, there's a fair amount of concern in the neighborhood and I'm aware that several other owners are submitting sort of letters about position and I just respectfully request that those letters be given due consideration. There are a number of issues that are detailed in the letters that I have seen. I have seen them all but they include the impact. So there's a proposed four story extension punching out the back of this building which potentially does affect groundwater in terms of changing the footprint but it also affects the historic because it's clearly visible from a public parkway. There's a structural issue because we have shared structure, rear wall, side wall that the proposed plans, the interior plans, no opposition to I think they got renovated and returning to a well. Please wrap up in an additional condition, thank you. Yeah, I just wanted to, I guess get that read into the record and thanks again for your consideration and look forward to a response to our various letters. Thank you, Madam. Thank you. Can the applicant respond to the concern about the expanded backyard back? Yes, we've had the neighborhood meeting with the Clown Monarch Park in Minnesota, I've been, I've reached out multiple times to Robert Barney. He said that through the relocation and the redistribution on the back of this building is not up for relief. We've explained that to the association. We had our partners meeting, we did all our meetings. We've also offered to some people that have been in opposition to take a meeting with them to go over the plans. But it's more of a coordination meeting, it's, you know, two, you know, and we've been, but they decided to go another round and just completely close. We're not looking for relief. It's an asset, right? What we're looking to do in the back is building this asset, right? We're looking for relief on groundwater, which we have a groundwater plan and a lot of lettering. And we're looking for relief for the staircase going up to the route that because it helps to prevent the Salvant. Both of these things we're seeing relief are done in every day in the Salvant and what happened to coordinate with anybody in the neighborhood. But we're not looking for permission for something that's asset-right. Thank you. Any questions from the board? My understanding is that the relief for the building co-villation is actually due to what means of egress to the roof, not necessarily the head house in the League of Council. Correct me, my mom. I'll have to double check on that and get back to you. Oh, that was for the, for the, for the, for the applicant. Yeah, that was for the applicant. That was a question for the applicant. So the relief is that if you have a roofed x-based way of standing in view, the building co-village the head house. But the head house is a prohibited in the Salvant. So this is a common practice coming to the CBA and ask for relief in this. And what we're doing and what we're providing, which is a standard in the Salvant, is a hatch. Not a head house because people don't want their sidelines, dish, dish brought up by head house, instead of the Salvant. Thank you. And this has been approved by the historical commission of the Salvant. Okay. I, um, the violation that I saw was literally ordered as a roof access egress to a occupied roof locator of fourth story versus the head house. So, um, I will need clarification from ISD. So I'm going to put forward, can I put it for emotion? This way. So I'm going to put for emotion to approve with the provisal for grant for a g-cot. And I would like to do a separate motion to do a deferral for the building compilation to get clarity. Is there a second? Second. Okay, Mr. Stambridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Thank you. Mr. Arlangom. Yes, ma'am. Mr. Ruiwaw. Yes. Mr. Berraza. Yes. Chair votes. Yes, motion carries. What's the date? Sorry, we need a date from Samantha. Madam Chair, we can do a date of July 30th. Does that work for the applicant? It does. Just one clarification. The only thing you're looking for is the only thing that's in question is this roof deck. Yes, there's a violation. Yeah, I'm looking at the violation. The question is what the violation is. Yeah, I'm looking at violation right now. The violation comment is roof access, egress, untypied roof, located above four story. I want access that the actual building co-villation is for the head house that you're actually proposing every patch. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Next, we have a groundwater of G-Card hope. We've gone only case, which is case B-O-A-158-9398. The address is 25, Joe Street. The applicant and the other representative from the explain the case report. Yes, thank you, Mr. Stembridge, Madam Chair, members of the board. I'm Julie Muffinio, medical counsel with Neighbor Health Formally is Boston Neighborhood Health Center. We have a very straightforward proposal. We are looking to complete some baby and work on the health centers parking lot located in the G-Card district. The paving requires G-Card approval only, and we are compliant with the appropriate infiltration standards. We've submitted the required letters from Water and Sures and the letter of Nohara. Thank you. Thank you. Is Mr. Semenelli with us again? We have Madam Chair, good morning, Christians Semenelli, Boston, groundwater Trust, and we have both G-Card medicine from the up. Okay. Any questions from the board? Any public testimony? Here in Madam Chair, motion? No, motion. I'm sorry, Stephanie. We can hear Madam Chair. Are there any other raise hands? No, I can't hear you. No raise hands. Okay. May I have a motion? I will put forward a motion of approval with the providers. That plans be reviewed and approved by Boston Water and Sures due to the location within G-Card. The plan that the plans we submitted to the BPD for design review to mitigate the impacts of surface parking. I want Madam Chair to answer the quickbusters. Is there a second? Second. What? Mr. Stambridge. Yeah. Mr. Valencia. Sorry, Mr. Valencia? Yes. Sorry, Madam Chair. I'm not working well today. I can see that. Mr. Langham. Yes. As we will. Yes. He's better browser. Yes. Here are both yes. Motion carries. Thank you very much. XG card case is based be away. 157. 67. 14. So the address of 323. Common call down there. Yes. Can't handle what the representative. What the exploit point. Good morning. Madam Chair, members of the board. John Moran, Alpine Advisory Services with the mailing address of 130 Beach Road, and the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city. I'm not sure if you can see that. I'm not sure if you can see that. I'm not sure if you can see that. I'm not sure if you can see that. I'm not sure if you can see that. I'm not sure if you can see that. I'm not sure if you can see that. I'm not sure if you can see that. I'm not sure if you can see that. I'm not sure if you can see that. I'm not sure if you can see that. I'm not sure if you can see that. I'm not sure if you can see that. I'm not sure if you can see that. I'm not sure if you can see that. I'm not sure if you can see that. I'm not sure if you can see that. I'm not sure if you can see that. I'm not sure if you can see that. I'm not sure if you can see that. I'm not sure if you can see that. I'm not sure if you can see that. I'm not sure if you can see that. I'm not sure if you can see that. I'm not sure if you can see that. I'm not sure if you can see that. I'm not sure if you can see that. I'm not sure if you can see that. I'm not sure if you can see that. I'm not sure if you can see that. I'm not sure if you can see that. I'm not sure if you can see that. I'm not sure if you can see that. I'm not sure if you can see that. Mr. Seminelli. Mr. Seminelli. Madam Chair, members of the Board. Mr. Seminelli. Madam Chair, members of the Board. Mr. Seminelli. Mr. Seminelli. Madam Chair, members of the Board. Mr. Seminelli. Madam Chair, members of the Board. Mr. Seminelli. Madam Chair, members of the Board. Mr. Seminelli. Madam Chair, members of the Board. Mr. Seminelli. Mr. Seminelli. Madam Chair, members of the Board. Mr. Seminelli. Madam Chair, members of the Board. Mr. Seminelli. Madam Chair, members of the Board. Mr. Seminelli. Madam Chair, members of the Board. Mr. Seminelli. Mr. Seminelli. Madam Chair, I'd like to put more emotion approval with the provider of the plant-be-reviewed by Boston Water and Sua Commission due to his location to the Grand War of Conservation and the District. May I have a second? Yes, sir. Mr. Sembridge. Yes. Mr. Belencia. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Mr. Spurrow. Yes. Mr. Spurrow. Yes. Mr. Spurrow. Yes. Mr. Prasa. Yes. Mr. Rose. Yes. Motion carries. Thank you. Next, we move on to the hearing schedule for 9.30 AM. Start off with case of POA. I'll propose you that. Or I ask if there are any requests for withdrawal from the pearls from the stock market. And we'd also like to remind you that yes, we have only a six-number board. We'll be with this for the hearing schedule this time. Thanks. So with that, we'll move on to case of POA. 1-5-8-9-7-1-9 with the address of 66 Homer Street. If the applicant and the other member of the brother, would they play with board? Yes. Good morning, Mr. Stembridge. Thank you. Good morning, Madam Chair. I'm Mr. Borden. Richard Lins with a business address of 245 Sumner Street, East Boston, and the half of the petitioner with us is Eric Sackers, who is the project architect. In Jump Down a Slide 2, that's probably a good place to start. Madam Chair, I'm Mr. Borden. This is a proposal that involves a 5.5-foot-foot-life and the RRU section of East Boston. It seems that we are getting to the end of the legacy cases that were filed before the zoning amendment was effective for the East Boston neighborhoods. This is filed on the prior version of Article 53. Essentially Article 53 would have allowed two family dwellings for total four units on the site. The amendments to the zoning codes, what actually allowed, up to six units on the site if we were to sub-divide this part. We would have sub-divide this property and create two separate three family dwellings. Our proposal falls somewhere right in between old zoning and new zoning. Essentially, what we're proposing is a 5 unit dwelling one less than would be allowed under new zoning and also including five parking spaces. We're going down to the board that under new zoning, who would propose two separate three family dwellings. We would not be required to have any parking on the site as the parking requirements for one to three family buildings are no longer parking. We know that parking is a sensitive topic in this particular neighborhood, so we felt that the proposal to reduce the total number of units on the site as well as incorporate parking was the best fit for the area. Can you jump down to the next slide please? So seeing here, we are located in the new EBR-free district. That is essentially been codified by the zoning commission on April 24th. So with respect to EBR-free, while a single lot would not permit more than three units, this site would be easily able to accommodate, as I mentioned, two separate buildings were 12 or six units. I think I have a quick high level comparison on the next slide. I think it's slide four. So we could easily subdivide this into two, as I said, 225 foot wide lots by 150 and comply in all respects with the current zoning. Again, our proposal would simply do one single building in five units with five parking spaces. And so some of the violations that would be triggered under new zoning would be used because one single building on a lot cannot exceed three unless the lot itself is more than 55 feet wide. But some of the other more important metrics, I believe, that are important, involves a lot coverage and current neighborhoods in those in our moment. We go to the next slide please that will show some of the surrounding context of the area. So we see a very exciting view here of the current conditions of the site. There's an existing single family that will be demolished on a separate permit for the for this proposal. No, the next slide please. We review the building. As you can see, the context directly across the street is a mix of triple backer style buildings as well as two and a half story buildings. The new zoning for this area permits up to three stories and 35 feet, which is consistent with our plan. We are also proposing a roof deck, which is permitted under new zoning as a matter of writing. Next slide please. Just a couple of different views of the existing conditions. Next slide. An existing building that will be demolished. I can I can propose a next slide and jump one more. And one more. So we have the architect who's with us, Eric's address and prepare an overview of what our building will look like in comparison to the existing conditions. We have a couple of different buildings on site and just showing some the alignment front and rear setbacks on the building as well as how it fit relatively into the street context. If you kind of next slide please. Jump to one more slide after this. So our site plan is here. We are showing a side here except I'm on left of three and a half feet. And the side here except I'm on right of three feet that would be like under new zoning. We're also the combined of the former zoning as well. We do show a five foot setback on the front that is the requirement of new zoning. And as I mentioned the lot coverage that is permissible in this particular district on the new EBR three were being maximum of 60%. We're just slightly over that by about 150 square feet. And the reason for that is the request or desire to see three better units in this building to accommodate three bedrooms which we have a total four we needed a little bit more rooms make that work. So our setback and the rear is also slightly short but one third setback that's required. However we do mean the permeability requirement which is the minimum of 30% we're actually at 33%. So we feel those metrics are being met under the new zoning and again just remind the board that this was filed prior to the new zoning being active with respect to the high of the building. If you jump down to the next slide we can start getting to the floor plans. Well I'm sorry. So this is just showing the garage level we do have an existing curb cut on the property. We would access the garage in a lot of our total five parking spaces and then close garage. We do have the next slide shows the lower level unit which would be adaptable for persons with disabilities and that is a two-bedroom unit at grade. When we get back to level two we show the two of the other units and those are the three bedrooms that we're proposing. Next slide please. Third level very similar to the second level also has three bedrooms and then we have the five roof decks on the upper level which are compliant with the new requirements zoning. So from elevation standpoint we do show some rear decks off in the back for the second and third level and the roof deck that I mentioned with the garage as you can see here in the front elevation. Next slide please. Just our side view and just to reiterate that we do keep this building within 35 feet which is the allowable height limit and kind of the new zoning regulation as well as a three-story building. Next slide please. So we have the four-bedroom unit and just our other elevation we are showing the context we're going to. So as I said we are providing the adequate number of parking spaces that are required in the new zoning so it's one space per unit in this instance. Total of five spaces one crew unit this is intended for the ownership. So these would be sold as individual kind of any units. How do you address any comments or questions in the board regarding this proposal? Thank you. Questions from the board. It would be good to just hear from BPDA in regards to the argument that the project was followed before the new zoning was put in place and to get the BPD's recommendation and also the TT's recommendation on parking space number five which basically. Yeah, we can talk about that. Okay. Let's start with Mr. Hampton are you with us? Yes. Thank you Madam Chair. I'm the support Jeff Anthony BPDA. Our recommendation for this project is to allow without prejudice. We understand that this was filed prior to the new zoning coming into play. However, we are reviewing the project. Now it's. The one building with five units is not something that we support. We. We'll recommend to everybody who's doing new projects in the splot. We're going to be able to apply to comply with the new zoning that was adopted by the zoning commission in April this year. So with that we're on the record to today was our presence. Thank you. One of BPDs on. It's not I can not. It's a very good demand to get. BPD recommended that five should be removed for a maneuverability. The question is to the applicant. You know you have five units. But BPDs recommend a maneuverability to remove one parking space. Does that still work? Yeah, I think through chair Ms. Berraza I think that the adjustments on arcing or something that we're going to be seeing more and more of. I feel most of the products that we present now. There are recommendations for BPD to consider less arcing on projects. And I understand that BGD approaches development now through a maximum parking by the minimum. So it does work. We can certainly try to work with BPD to satisfy the concerns that we wanted to try to maintain five arcing spaces. But we fully understand that that's their position that requires some work on our. And if I may, Madam Chair just quickly respond to this to have this comments. Yes, we fully understand. And we're still trying to figure out and understand the intent behind actually allowing out to six units on one lot in the EBR three district. It seems like it's an interesting approach. However, one of the things that is required to get six units is a lot that's 55 feet wide or more. I would submit to the board and we're relatively new in this working through some of these concerns. Lots in this section of each boss and mostly EBR three districts do not mean 55 feet in width. So it's almost in the looser requirement that I suspect will at some point work its way up through a challenge process. But lots typically in the neighborhood 25 or 50 feet wide there are any 55 foot wide lot. So 55 feet seems a bit arbitrary, but it should be pointed out that the use is actually allowed in the district up to six units. And once again, I would point out that compliance with the new planning spots and zoning would result in us doing two things. One, eliminating off-street parking in tire which I can guess is going to be somewhat of a concern for surrounding neighborhoods. And two would actually allow for two buildings because a subdivision of this parcel is permissible as there is no minimum size for parking under new zoning. And we would be able to construct a total of six units on the site. And once again, I just want to hear it. We felt the compromise was to reduce the number of units as well as a lot for the parking which we felt satisfied a number of direct-butter concerns. Okay. Any other questions from the board? Just want to point out to my colleagues that on the street there is no topology for an open door front door garage. There is usually off-street parking and the topology also that doesn't really exist as an apartment block, but you do see side by side kind of units with both fronts. No further questions. Thank you. I'm Madam Chair. The weather pay of the other comment by BTT. All should be installed at audio and visual or monitor protect person disabilities. Okay. Thank you. With that, let's open it up to public testimony. Hello, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Melody Beagle, who is with the mayor's office at Neighborhood Services. I will announce hosted in a butter is meeting for this project on March 12, 2024. Five of butter is represent. The butter to the back commented about privacy and building less in the currently proposed height as a way of mitigating the impact of the proposed changes as the butter express that he feels like the sunlight will be blocked of his property. The mayor of the neighborhood association was also on this call and he stated that he appreciated the bedroom count. If you would like to see less units so that the building does not eclipse the surrounding homes. The proponent met with the neighborhood association in March and in April. Residents expressed concerns that if this project passes which exceeds height limits in Plenty's Boston, it was set up precedent for other developers to propose taller buildings. Ultimately, the group voted to oppose a project with 15 opposed and six in favor. At this time, our office would like to defer judgment to the board. Thank you. Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Sebastian Power from Councilor Collettus office based on community opposition and based on it not being compliant with Plenty's Boston, the council would like to go in a position of this project. Thank you. Back to the one more raise hand. Yes, ma'am. I send to request to unmute you. Hello. Yes, we can you stay in name and address for the record, please. Rich Garland 37th Street. I'd like to say for this project, especially appreciating the compromise for parking over an additional unit. I've been in the community now for roughly two and a half years in the project that was just completed directly across the street. It was very similar at the parking. And I'd like to say that, you know, Tricky Lo does a fantastic job maintaining the work site. And then again, I'd just like to say that for this project and very appreciative of the compromise for parking over an additional unit. Thank you. Madam Chair, I've got one more raise hand. I'd say to you, my stomach, mute you. Good morning. Austin Taylor. Residents at 82 more street unit floor. Been here for about, I think nine up 10 months. And definitely for this project. I think the fact that they reduced the unit size as well as added parking. I'm definitely for this project for sure. Thank you. No additional raise hands, ma'am. Madam Chair, I just respond briefly to one comment that we heard relative to height. I just want to be sure the board is clear on this. This is compliant with the Platy Sposits hyper department. The issue, I think that the BPA as is the use is five units. And again, if this were a 55 foot wide a lot, this would be permitted as a matter of right. So, you know, the fact that we're reducing it down to total of five units is something that we felt was the compromise. There are other buildings within very close proximity, not specifically on board, but at the intersection street on Roar as well as Roar and Iron, I have very similar style buildings. And this board recently just approved the building directly behind this street behind this very similar size layout that you know, follow a lot of the same concerns of the neighborhood, but including parking as well as reducing your account. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Hearing none, ma'am, I have a motion. I'm going to put forward a motion given that it was filed prior to the new zoning taking place. I'm going to put forward a motion of approval with a proviso that parking space number five be eliminated and that the project undergoes heavy PPDA design review on the exterior. So, it works more with the massing of its context. Is there a second? Second. Okay, Mr. Stembridge. Yeah. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. As we will. I'm going to vote no. I think this should comply with the East Boston zoning. I'm also not in favor of training off units and favor of parking on if anything. It should be the opposite. And I think some of these things could be remedied with the lot coverage by just reducing the massing of the building and I would be interested in seeing a project with two buildings and three units each. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Berraza. Yes. Chair also votes yes. The motion carries. Thank you very much. Next. Next we have days of the 08 156 364. The address of 1 in one back street. The out and end of the representative's president. And we have the address of the city. The address of the city. The address of the city. Yes. Good morning again for the record of that chair. I'm support Richard. Business address of 2.45. Summars Street East Boston. We have the petitioner with me. Again, is Eric's at percent from context. And we probably can jump right down. We can go to slide. Maybe two or three. We can go to the next slide. I think I have some historic photos to give the board a little bit of context. Maybe one more slide after that. One more. Let's go one more. Close up here. So as you can see, this building previously existed on our in this workout a little over a year ago. And the owner is in the process of looking to rebuild. Our proposal would recognize that there has been an obviously the sudden change that occurred. You know, he's Boston. This would be in the new BBR for district, which would actually allow for multi family use up to four stories. Total of 50 feet. So I propose a workplace essentially in town, the building that was there previously. With a four story, four unit building at the corner. So if we can jump down to maybe slide eight, I think I do have a rendering that's a little more photos. So the proposal here, the building that you can see in the left here was a separate project that was also worked out. That is actually the complete reason we'll introduce you to the rendering of our building here at the corner. So it is essentially following the footprint of the previous building that was on the site. I'm sure it's this board maybe where there are provisions out of the Boston zoning code that allow for the reconstruction of prior non conformal structures. This would have been non conforming under prior zoning number respects, including the setbacks as well as the off-street parking requirements. Under new zoning, a number of those not conformities would be eliminated, including the proposed hydro-rub building as well as the number total number of units. Because this was previously located in the three F 2000 district. So we are in compliance with the multi family use. We are also compliance with the high of the building as we are less than 50 feet, as well as the requirements concerning a setback from a front inside as those are aligned with the building. So we are aligned with both public ways of our leads and Maverick Street. The new zoning does provide some special exceptions for corner lots. In this particular case, the lot coverage can actually be up to 75% for corner lock condition. And the permeability is reduced out of 50%. While we cannot necessarily meet those specific requirements, I think it's important to point out the board that the building could have been rebuilt under prior zoning or at least under the provisions of our before. For reconstruction of damage and destroyed buildings to the exact same footprint that was there previously. By way of relief, we require a number of items under the prior zoning because we are replacing this with the new 49 building. This also was filed under prior zoning. Before the amendment that was ultimately adopted by the zoning leadership, we can jump to the next slide please. Let's go one more slide. So we just see in our site plan here, we do maintain that passageway. Those are five foot passage behind the building. We asked that back before you feed from that. So we do have an actual actually an eight foot separation between the rear of our building and the building that's to our right along the Orlean Street. That is the exact same footprint that previously existed on the site as is typical for corner lock conditions, especially in the Jeffery's point. In the average square area, the building occupying most of the site is not an uncommon characteristic. Next slide please. Just showing our four plan layouts. These are all two bedroom two back units, the upper levels units three and four are five level units. We can turn the third floor and have bedrooms on the fourth level, which is a pretty consistent theme for these types of buildings along with within the Jeffery's point back square neighborhood. Next slide please. We do share our section plan. I do want to point out this is in the sea fried as well as G card overlays. Because again, this was filed before the enactment of the numitarical 53 year not subject to sea fried. We do show you didn't one as being a pertinent to I'm sorry the basement level being pertinent to you. One that is for exclusive use area. The only or not proposing any habitable space on our level. You didn't one would be. We do not have a lot of that grade. And although again, as I mentioned, this is within the sea fried being requirements for design, file elevation based on elevation calculations would not be applicable to this particular project because we've got to be filed before the amendments to our 53. We do provide obviously the adaptable unit level one and levels to three units to three and four. Next slide please. Just our elevations we do maintain this building height as consistent or municipal under considing, which would be under 50 feet and four stories is the premises of the district. Next slide please. I believe that's I'm sorry. So I'll cause there for any questions or comments or more. Thank you. Questions from the board. The only question I have is the BPA. You know, makes us recommends that no units being the basement, but I don't really see a basement. It's just on the ground floor. So it is such this to flooding. So can Jeff Hampton clarify? Okay, so the unit one is that a basement unit because I'm not. Right. So one, two, three, four because my this elevation that I have is that that's on the ground floor. This may be mislabeled. So so you know what it's showing you don't want the basement area in unit one. What were you seeing? Yeah, so you know floor plan for you don't want. Yeah, I'm not proposing the average space. There should be a notation every unit for towards the left side of your screen as well. Is unit four unit three or I level back to back, but unit one where I identify that is exclusive use. So I'm not building for unit one. Right, but what's what's in the basement and you don't have a floor plan? What was what were you proposing? Story story for the building but exclusive use for unit one and a lower level would be. Okay, so only storage. Okay, thanks for the classification and Jeff can also read the MEPAs recommendation. Thank you Madam Chair. I'm from Mr. Boych at Ante BPD. A Miss bed for us of life. You we saw that labeling and thought that was going to be occupied space within the basement unit. So that's why we recommended that that be eliminated in our recommendation. Understanding also that this was a fire building fire damage building up by apologies. We still are in on the record for it to now without prejudice because of the new e-sports and zoning. But now that the basement occupied space has been clarified, I think that's not that. Look, a bone like attorney and lens it said. But because of the new zoning, we still are on the record is denying without prejudice, even given the. The condition of the building. Thank you. Thank you. Other questions from the board. Hearing none now public testimony. The item chair members of the board. Now if you go in there is with the mayor's office and the neighborhood services. OMS has student of letters meeting for this project on November 8th of 2023. No letters represent on the call. The applicant met with the Goat Street Citizens Association. This took a vote in November to support the project of the vote of 11 in favor and to oppose. Voters commented on liking the book concept and once stated I support the development and concept. And I think the four stories is acceptable at this location. I'm opposed to this project because it was initially presented as approximately the same height as the embedding building. And in the second meeting there is an acknowledgement that the building was taller than the adjacent building but maintained the building height was 41 feet. The drawings presented by the project team clearly show the top of the cornice is 45 feet and the renderings continue to miss the public. At this time our office would like to defer judgment to the board. Thank you. Mr. Good morning Madam Chair. Members of the board. Christian, Summoner Lee Boston. Grownload of trust and we have both the G-Cod letters from the applicant. There's no additional raise hands, Madam Chair. I can't hear you muted, Madam Chair. Sorry about that. Any other questions from the board? I'm just wondering if you're sharing not may have a motion. Madam Chair, given that the new zoning amendments allow for maximum height for stories of 50 feet. And there are buildings that are much higher than what is being proposed in the vicinity. I'm going to put for a motion of approval with BPDA design review. Is there a second? Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Lengom. Yes. As we will. Yes. I think the location on the corner at once is self-to-visitional height and stories. Is better Plaza. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. Motion carries. Thank you. Next we have Gays and Beoway. 158-9704. We're dealing with 117 Addison Street. If the applicant is present. We'll go to the Director General for the Director of the Board. Yes. Good morning. Once again, Madam Chair, our arms and board. Richard Lenz. Business Addison. 245 Summars Street. He's busted. I mean, half of the petitioner with us is Taya and Knessher from Part 1 companies. It was a project architect. Madam Chair, this is, we can jump down to the next slide. This project involves the demolition of existing two-family dwelling with the replacement of a multi-family six unit dwelling on Addison Street. Addison Street has received a good deal of attention over the past several years for new development. It is formally, you know, we call the economic development area called Highway EDA, which ironically would have committed this project basically as a matter of quiet under prior zoning with the exception of use. So even though addison Street is predominantly residential, residential use was previously forbidden under zoning. Prior zoning, new zoning allows for EVR 4, or under the EVF or District. Now allows for multi-family use so that that violation would now be removed. Respect to compliance with current zoning. This, as I said, would be multi-family use, which is allowed. There is no minimum lot size or lot width. So we do comply with the 5000s per foot block. The item such as lot coverage and permeability can be met. 60% maximum lot coverage, where 56% with the permeability of your environment, at least 30% where about 42%. We can jump down to the next slide please. So just showing here the EVR 4 District is identified as being this portion of Addison Street. You can see here located next to the former McCall Highway EDA, next slide please. So the Quick Birds I have you here. You can see is a relatively larger nine unit multi-family residential look. The directly next story is a four-story building with a garage looking at ground level. You can go to the next slide please. You can see here some of the contacts as you're going down. Addison Street towards Hyritoga. Directly across the street is a relatively larger commercial building commercial site. And you can see just off in the distance for the top of the screen a larger 200 unit multi-family residential project. It was completely good recently. Next slide please. Just a different view looking at Addison. Next slide. Here's our Street View. Do you have that four unit built in a four-story building? Nine units. Look at the directly to our left. That tree is located on the property. So not necessarily within our within the public way. That would be removed and we did make a commitment during the committee process to incorporate street trees that are appropriate species. We do have the power line located directly above us on that side of the street. We can also need to make a commitment to tree DC for additional tree DC plants in the neighborhood. Next slide please. Just a different view here looking down next slide. And then the side view here next slide. We start here with our renderings. So we do in the more rate some of the setback on the four level which is a typical design feature that we do see in a lot of buildings. So we do have a semi-media vicinity which includes some balconies to the second third level. The garage entranceway which I assume TTD will ask that we incorporate a motion alarm for vehicles entering an existing building which we can no issue with. Next slide please. Just a different view here looking up Addison. Again seeing that setback of that fourth level. Next slide please. I'm going to jump down a one more slide here. As far as our site plan we do show our side yard setbacks at minimum of five feet both left and right that is combined with new zoning. Clire zoning did not require any side yard setbacks but there was a condition that would certainly allow to fill the entire lot under fire zoning. So we did setback with respect to the proposed for the time of proposed new zoning five feet. The rear setback ranges we do have going from 33 feet to about 28 feet at its shallowest that left corner of the building just within 28 feet of the rear. Up behind however we do come back to about 33 feet when we have those proposed decks on the right rear side of the building. That would be compliant with the the new zoning amendment which allows for the measure to go to the building if the decks are being shown on the rear property. So we do have a requirement to maintain 33 feet for the setback but similar to the previous project that we had we did one on the corporate three bedrooms in this. So we do have a total of three three bedrooms and three two bedrooms. So in order to make that work we felt we needed a little bit more depth on the building to get the size of the units to work. Other than that as I mentioned the lot coverage would be at 56% and then the permeable area that we available is an excess of 30% at 42%. So both of those can apply with a new specification under the amended zoning. Next slide please. Just showing our parking we have a total of four spaces that we are providing for total of six units and similar to our previous proposal. We talked about early this morning. We understand that parking would have been critical for this neighborhood. They've asked us to consider incurring parking but we understand BTU's approach as a maximum not necessarily minimum for parking. This would not necessarily complies specifically with new zoning as it does require one space pre unit. We felt that it was important to incorporate some parking at the lower level as opposed to trying to add more units. So this is one of the conversations that we did have with the buyers during the planning process for this project. Next slide please. So just illustrating the general layout size of the units so you can see we have a back to back with some outdoor stays both from back as well as the mix of three and two better unit. Similar layout as we go up the levels to level three and level four to the next slide. Jump jumps the next slide. Next slide please. Next slide please. Until the next slide please. So with that I am happy to pause and answer any questions to the board. Thank you questions from the board. I wanted to say that I already with the BKD recommendation, they suggest that a number of parking space close to the garage door. I was looking at the site plan for the parking. It seems that the current configuration is very hard for cars to get in and out. It is a car. Part of an angle next to a door. So that is my only comment, I'm going to put on the record. The comment from the BKD recommendation is included in the, that this should have a visual allowment to protect pedestrians. Thank you. Mr. Lin, do you want to comment on the parking? Once again, we're happy to work with BKD if there's a reconfiguration through the design of new process that we do work on. We were trying to lay it out based upon what we felt was available for space, but certainly willing to address the concerns of BKD first before eliminating any spaces. But certainly if that's the required requirement for design review, then we can certainly do that. Thank you. And Chair, there were also comments for giving this bill's permission. I think Mr. Rwantzi mentioned them. But if you want to reiterate, don't be too afraid. But does this bill's permission yes to propose real cheer with only provided access to one unit on the second slash ground for both units on that level should be accessible? So I believe we do have a tie-up in this right here. I my understanding is that requiring at least one accessible unit is what's required. I'm wondering. So for now, this is all my big, right? I think we have the all-rounder to do that. But tie-up, I want you to go ahead. I'm here. Thank you, Richard. For the record, my name is Talie and I'm sure we have brought when companies, we have the flexibility to relocate that lift to be able to provide accessibility to both units on that second floor. So within the design iterations, we can accommodate any requests or concerns that the commission has. Thank you. OK, without any other questions from Board, may I open it up to public testimony? Hello, Madam Chair and members of the Board. Now the vehicle is with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. I want us hosted in the Butter's Meeting with this project on March 26, 2024. The applicant met with the Harvard Human Neighborhood Association in March and in April of 2024. A vote was taken in the April meeting and the group voted to propose a project with a vote of 11 or gross and seven in favor. However, O and S did receive six letters in support of a project that were forwarded to the Board. At this time, our office would like you to bring judgment to the Board. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning, Madam Chair and members of the Board. It's the last time I'm part of the Council at Colorado's Office based on the opposition from HVNA. And it's not compliance with 20s Boston. The Council would like to go in a position on this project. Thank you. Any other questions? No, see any additional raise hands, Madam Chair. May I respond to the three Madam Chair just on the Council? Yes, definitely, yes. So just a couple of things to point out. So this actually would be dimensionally a compliant building in our prior zoning. The allowable highland that was 45 feet previously. But I would point out that the setback in our Mayor in our prior zoning was only 20 feet. And there is no sign-out setback. So this would be dimensionally compliant building, but the use was all that was essentially forbidden under prior zoning. The new zoning amendment makes the use an allowable use. And then we are generally in alignment, if not on point with all of the zoning amendments. Perhaps with the exception of the rear setback, which ranges from the compliant 33 feet down to 20 feet. And as I said, I think the critical component here is that we do meet the maximum lock coverage as well as the minimum permeability for the site. And that allows us to incorporate three better units into the building itself. Thank you. May I have a motion? Madam Chair, I can propose a motion and see if the cock of my colleagues agree. I would like to propose a motion of approval with couple of proisels. One being that one carcadena may remove from the durability. The second being that an accessible lift be accessible to the two units. The third is to allow for VPDA to work with the applicant on the overall site plan of the building to increase setbacks to allow for a building that is more contextual. That's all I have. That's plenty. May I have a second? Five seconds. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Mr. Langham? Yes. This we will. Yes. Mr. Berprasa? I actually heard you say yes. Sorry. Yes. OK. Sorry. Chair votes. Yes. The motion carries. Thank you very much. I'm very excited. Next, we have keys. Vilo 81581050. With the address of 60. Neuron Roe. If the applicant and the weather are represented as present for the exploits of the board. Yes. Hi. My name is David Fried and I'm an architect at Chewing Company. And I'm here to present the project at 68 Neuron Roe. We are here just to get approval for two shut donors of this existing center entrance colonial house, or colonial style house. Next slide, please. The donors are conditionally used. So we were cited for a restructure of restrictions and also for a very hard setback. The house is, you can see there's a lot of line just behind the rear of this house. We're setback just to 1.5 feet from that lot line. These additional, these two donors will give us much needed to have them high in this third story of the house. Next slide, please. That's an image of our group plan. Next slide, please. The building in particular here is the blue house. And you can see where we have a lot of shed dorm around the top floor. Next slide, please. Here's a view of our rear elevation. Do we have a side view? Yes, we do. Here's a side view of our project. And we had a rebutters meeting that we didn't have. There was no opposition at the meeting. And with that, I will open up to any questions the board has. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Green. Any questions from the board? Hearing the man public testimony? No matter what, the members of the board Sean Green with the mayor's office, the board services. And the bodies meeting was held to six near row on April 3, 2024. Since that time, this office has received zero letters in support and zero in opposition. With that, we would defer our judgment to the board. Thank you, Mr. Green. I don't see any additional raise hands in that chair. Thank you, with that in that motion. Madam Chair, I make a motion of favorable with the VDDA in the same review. It's the celebration to the approve the structure. Thank you, ma'am, second. Back in. Mr. Valencia. Sorry, I went out of church, Mr. Stembridge. Yeah. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Ms. Lee La. Yes. Mr. Vaza. Yes. Shervo's, yes, the motion carries. Thank you very much. Next, we have case theory, 153-5146, with the address of 23 Clark Street, if the applicant and the representative's president will explain the case to the board, sir. I can hear me. Yes, sir? Hi, this is Mike Deluso, I'm the developer here in the North Bend. I represent 23 Clark Street. This is a family-owned building, existing 10 units. The 10 unit was the ground floor unit, which was at some point or another, it was a store, it's considered commercial space. And since the owners of the building were continuing construction to all the other nine units, one at a time, they were cited by ISD which called sprinkler and fire alarms throughout the whole building. So at this, they wanted to take the opportunity to turn this commercial space on Clark Street into a studio residential unit. So we are seeking relief for Article 54, Section 21, Office of Repark and Institution and Article 54, Section 10, use of the open space insufficient. Can you hear me? Yes, sir. Okay. So the building is gone under the construction for the sprinkler and the fire alarm systems and the renovations to the other units because we received that on another additional permit, ALT 140402, which allowed us to do the work to the other units that are existing residential units. And this particular commercial unit, we are asking for the board today to approve us to make it a residential. Questions from the board? Maybe. Hearing none, Mayor Public Justice of the building? Madam Chair, members of the board, I'm going to move on to the amendment with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This time, the Mayor's Office deferred to the judgment of this board. I want to ask those in the buttons being on March 20th. The applicant then went on to meet with the two North and Pacific associations, New Rutt and New Nick, both offered letters of non-objection to this proposal, with that referred to the board this time. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, with that, we have a motion. Madam Chair, I'll put forward a motion of approval. May I have a second? Back in. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Mr. Langon? Yes. Mr. Wu-Low? Yes. Mr. Berraza? Yes. Chair votes yes. The motion carries, because of. Thank you, Madam Chair, and members of the board. Next, we have case VOA 157, TUSEN, the report, with the address of 3638 Allen Pell Park. The applicant's hand over their representative's front, but they explain to the board. Madam Chair, I just said a request to make you a panelist. Yes. Yes. Hello. Can you hear me now? Are you presenting his project this morning? Yes I am. I will then yesterday to… I'm going to make you a panelist. I'm going to have a panelist. I'll make sure to write a panelist. Okay. I will have a panelist. I'll have a panelist. I'll have a panelist. I'll have a panelist. I'll have a panelist. Okay, thank you. Madam Chair, I'll have a panelist. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I'm going to make you a panelist, okay? Okay. Okay, sorry about that. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is Mike LaFraud. I am the owner of 3638 Elmo Park. This project is to add a curb cut driveway and off street parking onto the property as there's currently no off street parking on this property and on street parking is very limited. I'm seeking relief of the front and side yard setbacks, excuse me, as well as the off street parking requirements. Do you continue in a little bit to the parking area in the front of the house? So for the front yard setback that we are seeking relief from, we are rebuilding the existing retain while that is there. It's a very poor shape. So we're not moving that front yard, our attain wall at all, which can be rebuilt in place. And then on the east side of the plan, we are building the existing retain wall and pushing the back a couple feet to allow for the 20 foot parking space. And then we are also seeking approval for parking in the front of the house as there is not enough room on the side of the house to allow for parking. Are there questions for having a board? Yes, quick question. Looking at the rural map, I see that there is a handicap at this place at this moment, located where you want to put the curb cut. Yes, so that was for the previous owner who was an elderly junk man that needed the handicap spot. Currently, we are running a vehicle building so there is no occupants there, but we would be able to dedicate one of these spots to handicap if one of the occupants required that. But the driveway on the left, does that not belong to you? Does that belong to your neighbor? Yeah, so that's for the neighbor. Pretty much all the houses on the street have a driveway except for my house and then the one directly across the street at the end of the road. Got it. Okay. Other questions from the board? Hey, I ain't done man, public testimony. Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, or Connor, anyone with the mayor's office of neighborhood services? This time the mayor's office deferred to the judge of this board. This application went through a follow-on community process with ONS and a butterch being with Helen Maple. First, it was well attended. The applicant then went on to meet the Elmhull Park neighborhood and broken association on April 11th. The only concern this civic had was to confirm retaining all the structurally sound which the applicant was able to answer with that, but I will defer to the board at this time. Thank you. Thank you. Yes, no official or raise hands, Madam Chair. Okay. Any other questions from the board? Hearing none, ma'am, motion. Madam Chair, I am bringing the recommendations from the BDA and the Posts and Transportation Department. They brought with the NILF a very good recommendation based on the location of the proposed parking in front of the house. So we have my motion that is for the NILF. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Stambridge. I would vote on the portion of understanding, yes, it is front yard parking, understanding the parking condition. As I know it in the neighborhood, I would just vote no. Thank you, Mr. Volazio. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Yes, we will. Yes. Mr. Bervasa. Yes. Chair votes, yes, the motion carries. Next, we have case B.O.A. 155-72-04. The address of 26 Westerf Street, if the applicant and where they are represent the present, will take the case to the boardroom. Good morning, my name is Chair and I am in the BDA. I am a official of the E2Penetro-Tutuk's Church, St. Waihock, located at 26 Westerf Street. This is, in regards to adding an ecstatic station to our church for Sunday school purposes. So if you go to slide through, this is just a brief agenda. What I will be talking about, to just give you some context about our church and then its history within the world and also how it is operating. But Africa, American history, and then I will give you a story of our church and then why I will be here today, propose you to space and then I will share with you the proclan and some pictures and then I will show you what we've done with the action items that came out of the haberers in the neighborhood association. I mean, slide three please. So this is just to give you some context. The E2Penetro-Tutuk's Church is a very ancient church. It dates back to the times of the appostals, so we focus mostly on our purposes spreading the gospel and also has very much great impact on the black liberation and also pan-African-American movement. I was especially here in America. I played a significant role on the civilized era by encouraging leaders like Mark Garvey and also other black leaders in the country. It's a very ancient church currently. One of our churches can see located in the historic Roxbury area, slide three please. So our church is registered or incorporated as a 513-C3 in January 30, 2001 and we purchased our current place of worship in Roxbury in 2003. So we've been serving peacefully quietly in that area for the last 21 years. We have good relationship with our neighbors, so our mission is spreading the gospel of our Lord and civil justice rights and providing spiritual guidance and education to the Jews and also the heavens and the rich to the needs of our community. Our main focus in goal is educating the Jews about their culture and also important to become active and responsible citizens. So far, our priests ordained about 15 young U.S. born decals that would be serving our church and they become also positive role models for the younger and eight-year-old African school growing up here. If you go to the next slide please. So we are here today because our church purchased this shelter you can see the park in December 2022. The purpose is to serve as Sunday school co-pubular room for our younger children and this will help us educate the youth about their heritage and faith and their interlocutors, present in the city to the church. We will not create any inconvenience for our neighbors as our services are most here Sunday. So we will not have any impact on the, and also be used only a few hours on Sunday. Next slide please. So the purpose of this place is the day you will also be on Sunday mornings, mostly a hour or two hours every Sunday. So when kids first come to church they attend service in the main part of the building. And then after that when the kids are separated, they are going to age, and the kids in the age of 46 to 10 they go to the shed with their teacher to attend Sunday school. Can I just clarify, so this is already dealt correct? Can you just speak to what the violation is for the space so that we can access that? I think it was just an illegal use of the accessory structure, so they are just trying to correct that. Yeah, I mean it says insufficient side guards are back, but I don't know if that's a, did you already dealt this? Did you do this or was it already there? No, we bought this and we had a permit when we purchased this or the inspector approved the placement. But I think the violation was, we finished the inside, our children committee members, they collaborated to finish it and start using the last concular, rumored in the last version. Gotcha. Okay, so are there questions from the board? Okay, hearing none, can I put the testimony? Hello and thank you Madam Chairman of the board and board members. My name is Jeremy Beverwith in Office of Neighborhood Services. The office did hold a committee process for 26 Winthrop Street. The board is made of itself on April 10th, December 6th, December 16th, during both meetings, concerns were raised in regards to trash and rolling activity, which was addressed and exterminated into a survey and concluded that there were no rules on property. There was very little opposition. We do have a support from few constituents in the during the meeting. The civic group did show, they did our show support and received it. One better of support from the civic group as well. I have this time, the office of Neighborhood Services, elected deferred to Judge Melibor. Thank you. Thank you. I just want to add that to address the rodent or pay school control issue, we set up a maid boxes, we use the provisionally exterminated. Any other raised hands? No additional raised hands, Madam Chair. Any other questions from the board? Hearing none, may I have a motion? I'm sharing with the floor of the motion. I think it's them, I'll prove them. Okay, I'll be in the motion. Okay, now a second. Second. Okay, Mr. Stambridge. Yeah. Mr. Valencia. All right, I think he's a little frozen, we'll keep going. Mr. Langham. Yes. Ms. Wielow. Yes. Ms. Bethe-Brasa. Yes. Mr. Valencia, do you want to try going off camera? All right, well the chair votes yes, and that is the chair. Okay, great, thank you. We can hear you now. Motion carries. Yes. Thank you very much. Not to be picking Madam Chair, but I have 1059. Why don't we take a five minute break? All right, see you back in five minutes, thank you. You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You I I I Do Yours. Thank you.茲 dugroup stump Mr. Valencia. Mr. Kia President Miss Better-Brasen. President. Thank you, Flores George. Mr. Spemberg. Thank you, Madam Chair. There wasn't any book in front of that, and it's correct me to book up the telephone. Thank you, Mr. President. For the hearing schedule for 11 a.m., we'll ask if there are any requests for withdrawals from this time, Fred. Yes, Mr. Spemberg. 91 Radcliffe Road. I don't know how few of us need to play. So it's very small, that would be a speed away. 157. 205. 56. Could the address of 91 Radcliffe Road? Would you go ahead and explain, please? Sure. Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Attorney Dark Small. I have a business address of 51 Dops in Road. We're here today seeking a deferral. There were some changes made to the plans. And the ISD plans, Exammer, has yet to review those plans. So we are seeking a deferral to come back after they had the plans over here. Thank you, Samantha. Any dates? So it's not easy. We greatly appreciate it, Samantha. We can do a date, Madam Chair. July 30th. Okay, Mrs. Small. That's fine. Do I have to add? We have a motion. I make a motion until the front of July 31st. Was July 30th, Madam Chair? That's an I-30. Do you have a second? Second. Mr. Spemberg. Yeah. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Ms. Lee Waw. Yes. Ms. Beto-Baza. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. Motion carries. See you then. Thanks. Madam. Madam. Madam. Welcome. Madam. Welcome. Hi. Good morning. I'm Chair and the moves of the board. My name is Matt Mueller of U-Architecture. I'm representing the Dorture Design Collaborative. I'm part of the Welcome Home Boston program. We submitted changes to the design. And we had, um, Can you tell us what project you're referring to, please? So that Mr. Stembridge can read it into the record? Yes, I'm sorry. Mr. Stembridge will correct. Yes, ma'am. Yes. Okay. We are, I don't know if the VIA will be aware, but it's 104-108 in Norwell Street. Okay. So that would be one, three cases. Case B-O-A-159-6026 with the address of 104-Norwell Street. Also, case B-O-A-159-6034 with the address of 108-Norwell Street. And along with those two, case B-O-A-159-6032 with the address of 106. So, one, six, No, no, street. If you go ahead, it's going for it. Yes, we made some minor modifications to our group two, to all units on the first floor, which, um, a new violations were flagged, but these new, the violations are actually on the original set. But since they weren't flagged originally, I think we're being required to go back and, um, and send out notifications to the VIA voters. Okay. I do hope, um, we can do this as soon as possible, as this is, uh, around a pretty strict timeline with this project. Um, so anything you need to do, it helped me out with the original issue. Let's find out what's available next. So we have them. Step, step, is this the date of July 16th? That's correct, Samantha. Yeah. Yes, so we have it. This will be heard next July 16th. If that's all right, with the applicant madam chair. Matt, is that, uh, if that's the signature, that's a good, that's perfect. Okay. Thank you. Ma'am, motion. I make a motion to, to the vote that arises between the July 16th. I may have a second. Second. Uh, Mr. Stambridge. Yeah. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Ms. We will. Yes. Ms. Ben Abraza. Yes. Chair votes. Yes, motion carries. See you then. Okay. Thank you. Uh, chair, chair, would you be six number four? Uh, yes. Is the reminder that we are a six-member board. Okay. Uh, returning to the hearing schedule for 11 a.m., uh, we have two companion cases. First is case B.o.a. 156-5805, with the address of 40 conference square. From all of them, we have case B.o.a. 156-5797, also with the address of Winkhawk square. Is the applicant's end-order representative, would they explain the cases to the board, please? Thank you, Mr. Stenbridge. Madam Chair, members of the board, John Moran, Alpine Advisory Services, with the mailing address of 130, each road or lanes pass. Madam Chair, we are seeking three reliefs. One is building code. The other is a cheek-cog permit, and the last is variances. Uh, may I start with the building code? Yes, please. If we could scroll down, uh, to show the front of the building, which would be A21. Yes, uh, yes. This is a four-story building under the state building code access to the proposed roof. It must be by, but the building code terms are penthouse. We commonly call it a headhouse. We are proposing a hatch access. If a, if a penthouse is required, it would require zoning relief. Uh, as drawn, the proposed roof deck conforms to the zoning code as a matter of right. The property is located in the South End Historic District. It is listed as a contributing structure that would be designated South End National Historic District. Uh, the proposed hatch is a common means of access to roof decks and would not create an unsafe condition. Boston Fire has adequate equipment to reach the roof of this structure. The hatch would be in a, the proposed two-family structure in the roof deck and it would require additional facilities and facilities of use of the upper unit. We would suggest that the proposed hatch is an acceptable compliance alternative to the headhouse in seek of variance to utilize the proposed hatch. Question from the board. Do you, do you want to proceed with both? Are you looking to? I would suggest a vote on the three individually. Whatever the tree I can go for. Why didn't you walk us through the whole thing? We can, we can, we can vote accordingly. Okay. We seek a G-clad permit. The requisite Boston Waterman's soil approved plan. The compliance letter in the whole homeless letter that we do really well with the board and with the appeal. And the third is variances if we could scroll to the next slide. If we can down one. This shows the proposed rear decks there are two. There was extensive meetings concerning this deck and a compromised substitute plan was submitted and approved by ISD. The section to the left which shows the red ink area. The change to the original plan was to pull the proposed deck back from the adjoining property at 42, to conconquered three feet to change the way the proposed door would open so it would open from the left to the right. And that the initial portion of the deck would only project four feet out and then would continue to project six feet around the bay. The bay is a substantial portion of the rear of the building. If we could scroll to the next slide. This shows the proposed placement of the condensers. That's in back of the proposed roof, the black area. It is set back five feet from the rear wall. It is concealed and packed by the proposed deck. We would respectfully suggest that it would have minimal effect upon the profile of the roof on the street state. Again, the red blocked areas show the two proposed decks projecting into the rear yard. And with that, I would be open to questions from the board. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? You're in 9, man. I'll put testimony. Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board. We're honored in the Mayor's Office of Labor and Services. This time, the Mayor's Office is a first for the judge from this board. Our office held the butters meeting on February 28th. After there were some concerns raised from some neighbors about setbacks in the size of the decks. The applicant met with some of those neighbors. It did a walkthrough of the site. Understand in early April the green to reduce the width of the deck. The width of the deck from 6 to 3 feet. I mean, the gap between 42 comments squared and this proposal. I understand that some of the residents were pleased with that, although some others potentially would have liked to have further reductions. They then were on team with the very modern neighborhood association. With that information, we'll be further aboard at this time. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Mnellie. The morning, Madam Chair, I'm just a boy Christian. So, in early April, we have both letters from the applicant. Thank you. You have one additional raise hand, Madam Chair. Please. I've sent a request to unmute you. Hi there. Thank you so much. Hi, John Rand. Thank you for walking through these plans again. It's Kate LaDue. I'm a adjacent to number 40 and 42. We did all of us, all of the owners here, did meet with Shawn, Kennedy, and discussed some compromises as the initial proposal for this DEX were huge. My biggest concern is that they are right next door to all of our bedrooms. So, and Shawn was able to appreciate that, which I was glad for his empathy. While I want Shawn to be able to carry on with his livelihood, there had to be a misunderstanding because the big issue is, where do they start the deck from, our building? And I just want to provide context that the faculty building for both of our buildings are not flat, big, bow out. So, our bedroom is bowed out, right? So, the ask was to start it where the actual window currently exists. I, Shawn, had said three feet, I thought it was three feet from the downspout, and when I saw the plan, it was three feet from the property line, which is so, it's basically they could change my TV channel. And so, my only ask is, while I appreciate the initial accommodation, the proposed DEX is huge. And that's fine, but if we could just have the start of the deck five feet from the property line, as opposed, you know, right where the window is, instead of the three feet from the property line, that would be great. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Moran, can you comment on that? Yes, at the actual site meeting, many of the abuters at 22, I should say, the abuters from 42 who attended the site meeting agreed with Shawn by pulling the deck back three feet from the property line, and also changing the opening of the door so it would swing out some of the people going out onto the deck would be facing the bay. We thought we had agreement, my understanding, that one of the, that we had an email confirming that they were very pleased with this plan, and then I know Shawn had received some communication from Kate. I don't know as of last week whether they actually talked, but we thought this was the compromise. We submitted the compromise to the board and sent copies to all those who have attended the site meeting and received no objection for most attending the site meeting. I thought we had reached the set that we had compromised. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? Yes. Have you gone in front of the south and landmark historic commission for a design review? Yes, they have approved. As it is. As proposed, yes. Okay. Great. No further questions. Okay. So that may have a motion because two motions. Three motions. Okay. But, um, Matt, I'd like to perform a motion with a proviso that the project gets reviewed by Boston Water Suic Commission, that the project also gets reviewed by Boston South Landmark Historic Commission, and the third one would be that the project receives a building co-relief for a proof hatch, access to the roof, and that's it. Okay. Good. I did. As a Gcon. Oh, I'm sorry. Okay. May I have a second? Yes. Mr. Stambridge. Yes. Thank you. Mr. Rolanzia. Yes. Mr. Lino. Yes. As we will. Yes. Mr. Berkwaza. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. The motion carries. Madam Chair, if I may note, there would be, I would draft two separate opinions for the board, and I would like to thank the motion for building co-relief since that was a separate appeal, and then the second for the summary, G-Code Relief. Okay. Caroline, any concerns, questions? Here. No. So, just to clarify, it will be two separate letters, one for G-Code and one for the building code. Thank you. Next, we have case BOA, 1568134, the address of 283 to follow in Avenue. It's the applicant and or their representative, which probably explains what it does. Thank you, Mr. Stambridge. And good morning, Madam Chair and members of the board. My name is Rachel Alexander. I'm a most rejoined by my colleague, Jan Henderson. We are writing to receive commission from the board to continue to host food trucks at this poll, which is at 283 along with Avenue, abouting Boston Children's Hospital patient family garage. This program started in July of 2020 during the pandemic, as part of a greater neighborhood-wide place-making initiative, and since then, we have been running under a temporary permit with the ISD, and when seeking to renew our permit, again, in September of 2023, we were asked to seek an appeal with the zoning board. I'm happy to kind of answer any other questions, but I think it's, you know, we have the approval for a Boston Children's Hospital and have provided all our support. Here is the certified plan. Overall, it's been a great opportunity for us to be able to work with both existing food trucks and young entrepreneurs, you know, those are permittative in the city, and, you know, we just have a critical mass of people in lower classes, or along with neighborhood that I think really appreciate having a variety for Ms. Walter Jordan's face. Happy to answer any further questions. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Here in NADMAV Public Test of 20. Madam Chair, members of the board, we're calling our new and with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This time, the Mayor is offering to defer to the judgment of this board, our way of being circulating flyers to a budget of 300 feet. I'll run away with any concerns at this time, without a first report. Thank you. Thank you. No additional raise against NADMAV Chair. Was that made of emotion? Yes. I'm going to move. Is there a second? Back in. Mr. Sandbridge. You're Mr. Lanzilla. Here is. Mr. Lina. Yes. Mrs. Willow. Yes. Ms. Berrazo. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. The motion carries. Good luck. Thank you so much. Thank you, Chair. Next, we have case of the OA, 158, 954. With the address of 26 rolls, clear to three. If the applicant, the other one, they represent the president. Well, they explain the case of the board to us. Yes. Thank you, Mr. Sandbridge. Good morning. Madam Chair, members of the board. I'm the attorney with the business address, 350 West Broadway. South Boston, I represent Michael Waterfall, the owner of this property. 46 rolls, clear streets, currently, 2.5-story building with a legal occupancy of a two-family dwelling located in a 2F-5,000-zone sub-district with the Android Chester's Article 65. As indicated on the architectural drawings, the building actually currently has a very dwelling unit. In the attic level, this was an existing condition when this property was sold in 2017 to an ownership unit, which at the time included, was not controlled by my client. It was approximately one year ago my client bought out his business partners and immediately undertook to legalize the occupancy of the currently vacant third unit, legalize the occupancy of the building as a three-family dwelling. And so, viewing is also proposing to square off the roof and convert building to a three-story structure. There is an existing curb cut and driveway on the right side of the building leading to a garage in the back, which is in poor condition. This garage will be raised, to be replaced by three service parking spaces. As these spaces would occupy an area actually less than the current garage footprint, this change would result in additional landscape open space in the rear yard. The building's foundation footprint will not change, but the first and second floor rear decks will increase lightening size, and the new deck will be added to the third floor level. If both the front and the back of the building, there would also be a 12 by 20-foot roof deck for the exclusive use of unit three. We access directly from the units rear staircase. Unit one in the first floor currently has four bedrooms, and this will not change. Unit two in the second floor currently has three bedrooms, and this also will not change. Unit three, which is a small unit in attic, which again is currently vacant, will grow from a one bedroom, here with three bedroom units, as the half-story attic will be converted into a full floor. With respect to the zoning relief requested, the variance is needed for the proposed three-family use. While zoned 2F, there are numerous three-family dwellings in the immediate neighborhood. While preparing for today's hearing, I actually can to notice that I represented both 22 rows Claire Street, which was converted to a three-story three-family in 2017, the end 24 rows Claire, which was converted to the same in 2018. There are two violations related to the width of the lock, which is just over 44 feet, as opposed to the 50 feet required by code. This is an existing condition, of course, which cannot be changed, and which is a typical lock width for the neighborhood. Also, typical for the neighborhood, and reasonable for the proposed use is the proposed for area ratio, 0.9. President Depeire, rebuilding is 0.77, whereas the maximum FAR in the zoning was 0.5. Relief is required for the proposed three-story height. Buildings height would increase to 34.5 feet, which is a zoning compliant, but the story height, one in this sub-vistrate, is 215 stores. Once again, in terms of neighborhood context of the 15 buildings on the even side of this block of rows Claire Street, 13 of those 15 at three-story dwellings. Relief is also required for a front yard setback violation, arising from the new third floor of the porch, which is within the areas of the porch's existing width, the first and second floor levels. There is a side yard insufficiency, which is solely to the vertical extension of the building within its existing footprint. It is a vertical expression of a pre-existing setback, not a conformity. With that, I will pause and take any questions that members may have. Thank you, Mr. Rife. Any questions from the board? I would like to know what's BPDA's recommendation on this project? He can say that he didn't submit any, and so I would like to know from Jeff Hampton with his opinion. Thank you, Mr. Bedabarasa. We didn't have any information for this, which is why we didn't submit a recommendation. I did go back, like Attorney Maranze had said, to look at the 22 and 24 rows Claire, and as he said also that this is almost an exact replicate of zoning review. In those two cases, we recommended through with the exact review. Thank you. Why is there a reason to propose a roof deck when you have adequate roof deck at the rear of the property for each unit? I think it was just viewed as an additional benefit for the third floor unit. There are nice views from this location, and the client believed it would be additional nice open space for the third floor unit. Thank you, and I have other questions. Let's open it up to Paul and Toss it up. Good morning, Matt. I'm the board of cross-programmed mayor's office of the APRIT services. The applicant has completed their community process at this time, our office held in letters meeting in March of this year, where residents joined in and they shared some concerns of our parking, and were just curious about construction timeline, etc. They also presented to the local civic association, however, I do not have a letter of support or opposition on file at this time. Likewise, I do not have any letters of support or opposition on file by any of letters or constituents. At this time, we'd like to refer to this porch judgment. Thank you. Thank you. Hello. Madam Chair, members of the board of the Lee and Marine District Council. If it's a surveillance office, I often like to unlink it and support the proposal. Thank you. Madam Chair, I'm sorry, Stephanie. Madam Chair, George Rays-Eiken, accurate report that the McCormick Certificate of the Association did in fact be both in favor of the project they were in to support. Thank you. No additional raise against Madam Chair. Thank you, Stephanie. With that, we have a motion. Madam Chair, I'd like to put forward a motion. Given that in the vicinity, there are no exterior stair lanes to a roof deck. There's only one example for houses down that has an internal stair access to the room. With these reasons, I do think they have adequate use of exterior space from the rear deck. I'd like to put forward a motion of approval with the supervisor that the project removes the roof deck and roof deck access from an exterior stair. Okay. May I have a second? Second. Mr. Stambridge. Yes. Mr. O'Onzee. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Is we well? Yes. Mr. Raza. Yes. Chair votes yes. The motion carries. Thank you. Madam Chair, since 1130 fires, I will ask at this point if there are any request for withdrawals with the bill of the 1130 rediscussion time. Yes, Mr. Stambridge. 10 times in square place. So that would be the case of the away. 1130. 4343. Would the address of 10 times square? Would you go ahead and explain? Chair, that's it. Yes. Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board. My name is George Barron. I'm an attorney with the business address. It's 350 West Rod. Broadway representing the petitioner. Madam Chair, I was actually prepared to request a referral of the floor I became aware of this morning. This is a six member board, which means of course, I'm entitled to an administrative referral. This would allow us to benefit from fanics and additional time. We're very, very close in working with both the Charles County Council and the design professional members architects. And otherwise, the Charles Tom Preservation Society would reduce the building with four stories to three stories. And we're currently just working on some design issues since this is units of very sensitive site and 10 constant square historic location in Charlestown. So I would like to take benefit of the administrative referral just to allow us an additional time to finish up work with those groups and hopefully have hope and unity support. So what time frame are you looking for? Because you have deferred multiple times already on this one. Yes. That is true. So, you know, we probably have just a couple of meetings left with each group. I would suggest I think the board maybe was out of July 30th on the last time I heard a deferral. So maybe next available date after that to give us at least a couple months to continue the work with the community. Samantha, what are you looking at? Madam Chair, we have August 13th or August 27th. I think August, let's be safe and say August 27th. I think that would be appropriate. Okay. Is there a motion? I make a motion to the verge of August 27th. Is there a second? Yes. Mr. Lambrue. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Mr. Lungham. Yes. Mr. Lurow. Yes. Mr. Bervaza. Yes. Mr. Sherval, yes. The motion carries. Thank you. Any further requests for the calls of the frozen 1130, hail timeframe? Yes. I'm going to be done. Is there a hand raise? It's different. Here's a hand raise. John Lianz, are you here for a deferral? It's a matter of meeting. It's Monday, Madam Chair. My name is John Lianz. I'm a trainee with an office at 80 Colton Street in Quincy representing the proponent inville. We're requesting another deferral. We're working to get back to the committee as soon as possible. You have sufficient time to continue working with two different civic associations. We have met twice with the minister in association. What project is this for? What is the address? I'm sorry. This is for the Temple Street. Okay. Please allow Mr. Stenridge to read it into the record. five, two, zero, three. The address of 40 to 42 examples. Yeah. Yeah. If that's okay. Continue, sir. Sorry for the interruption. Again, my name's John Lyons. I address this 80 Colton Street in Quincy. Representing 10, Voodoo Vibonet. We're requesting another extension to permit additional time to continue working with two civic associations. We did meet twice with the River Street Association and we met with the evil one for Willemills and again with the Willemills General Membership. The present concern relates to the architectural style. Sorry, you don't need to go into those details at this time. Okay. Well, we're reworking the plan manager. That's essential. Thank you. What do you think were the supplies for time? All right, bye. August 13th, is that open? Samantha. We can do August 13th, Madam Chair. Okay. Without me having a motion. Most of the time to August 13th. Madam, a second. But, Mrs. Average. Yeah. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes, yes. But, Ms. Wewell. Yes. Ms. Meduraza. Yes. Chair votes yes, motion carries. Thank you very much. There's another hand raised, Madam Chair. I'm going to. Okay. No. Senator, we request to unmute you. What's the? No, I sent a request to unmute you. No, no, you hear to request a deferral? Yeah. Okay. Can you give us the address? It's that phone. We met. I'm sorry. What's the? It was the phone. It's the letter. Okay, Mr. Average. Sorry. What was that again? A story. 86, a story. A street. Is that correct? Yeah. Okay. So that would be for two cases. We're going to. What's the. That would be a deal. Wait 153 8686. Would the address of. 86, a story. And along with that is case B.O.A. 153 870 also with the address of. 86, a story. Would you go ahead and explain the board. Yes. So the last. I was on it. They said. You guys said you want to. Want me to meet with a city with the. Madapen and the Westseller community. But I get a date for the 20th. Fourth of July of June. Yeah. Okay, so you so you need time to. Inheritimate with them. What's. Samantha what's available after that. Staff is this one for July 16th. Our box. Now you can defer it to. Whenever you. Okay, great. So we the next available date Madam chair would be July 30th. If that's the time for the African. Is that enough time for you? Yes. Okay. All right. Well, that may have motion. Motion took the photo of the light 30. Yeah. Yeah, second. Second. Mr. Savage. Yeah. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Mr. Langham. Mr. Smith. As we love. Yes. Is better browser. Yes. The chair was yes. The motion's here. See you then. Thank you very much. We should. Turning to the. On the block. On the block. On the. On the block. On the block. On the. On the block. On the. On the block. On the block. On the block. On the block. On the block. On the block. On the block. On the block. On the block. On the dashboard level. What came out. On the chart. On. Address of one or 20 to matrices. sembra. Who do you want to go warned today. I'm on chair members of the board. My name's James Christopher 6 northeast taxi business is address. Of 10 four road to bring three mass. Hamilton 21igarecord stage. This is actually assistant project. A lot was subdivided. There was a rear yard violation that was created on the existing lot and the existing building. We've the free amount of lot application has been approved. This violation was just recently caught. And so when we originally filed the application, this violation was there, but it was not heard at the board. It should have been. We don't know how it happened. So we hear correct that today. Questions from the board? Here at Redmond, may I have public testimony? Madam Chair, members of the board, and we're going to move on to the mayor's office of neighborhood services. At this time, the mayor is also interested to defer to the judgment board. As you heard from the outpour's representation, we've been presented as one through a community process, but before the board, they have letters of support from the voters on that street. There was also some concerns and opposition from the local Senate Association. With that information, we'll defer to the board this time. Thank you. Thank you. No additional raise hands, ma'am Chair. That may have a motion. Madam Chair, I just put it, I like to put a full motion of approval. Did there a second? That did. Mr. Stabbridge? Yeah. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Mr. Langham? Yes. Ms. Rielo? Yes. Ms. Betaprasa? Yes. Chair votes, yes. The motion carries. Thank you. The next case, we've been to the front, so that takes us to case, the way, 158288 to the address with 315, just not happening. It's half the catch and lower their representatives, but they're going to report for it. Good afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the board, Luis Santana. I am the consultant engineer for this project. And this has two part presentations, so I can also show the existing conditions of the existing instructions. What we are also here is a change of occupancy from a two-family to a six-year-old. We are proposing an infill on the left-hand side of the building and an infill and Rielo. Also, we are adding dollars to the rear portion of the construction. And if you could please go to the next slide. So this is the existing condition. We are adding one dwelling unit to the basement towards the rear. And this portion of the building right here we're going to maintain it as it is. Our next slide, please. This is the first row. Again, the left-hand side includes the infill which will be that area. And two infills in the rear of the building as well. And this area will contain two dwelling units. One entrance would be on the left side. The second floor is basically a duplicate of the first row with two units from the rear. And finally, on the next slide, we have the area space which will be converted into one unit in the rear area, and three door blocks on the right side of the building. And the next is So these are the elevations and we are trying to preserve the front of the building as it is now. And the additional is almost invisible towards the rear. It would be located right behind the bay, an inline with the bay on the next slide. And you can see the elevation that has the three doors. We are increasing the height of the rear portion of the structure by just above two feet after the reconstruction. And this is the entrance to the base value unit on the right left-hand side of the building and also the infill on that side. So this building has four elevations. We have six parking spaces as well. The parking is sufficient. We are sure two spaces. We have the ratio of one per unit, the floor elevations in excess also by a fraction of 108 or about 700 square feet. And the other elevations the use, which is not permitted in that. With that I would like just to give us a context to the presentation. I would like to want to remind you that I share with Stephanie. As you can see from those, if you can stop there of the first two pages, please. This building has been condemned in its two locations. There is a notice on the seat, should remind us the this building was condemned back in 2000. Or I believe 2006 or so, we're going again in 2020. The building has been disrepair for many many years. The new owner decided to take over and make this commercial elevations. You're going to the next slide please. You're muted Louise. The building is vacant and this is the present commission. And he has been like that for at least, I would say the last year for years. If you want to be next slide please. So this is the building at the full building. The solid side are taller than our building except for the couple. Next slide please. And this is the area on that side where we're proposing the infield in line with that bay window in the front. So in either way I'm going to be a front portion of the construction. Next slide please. I highlighted the area where the red line sear shows the area that we're not quite addition. And this is the real portion that will only be infielding as well. Now next slide the renderings. This is what we are proposing. We maintain and preserve the front of the block as it is. As you can see this rendering reflects the rear addition. There is a visible for the research. The cobbler left slope is slightly increasing the height of the roof line. And the bay window and deck is practically what we see from the street. Next please. This is a very high front view of the roof line and the changes that it includes in the parking spaces on the rear property in one room on the side. The parking is on the side. Now the yard. Next. And the previous slide to that one, it has a better context for the proposal issues. As you can see it's a minimally visible from this trick. And as you can see the proposal addition on the left hand side is immediately behind this bay window on the left. And I will emphasize that we are present in the front and I will explain at the conclusion of our presentation. Our degrees will forgot. This is a side view on the corner of the place. This is an analysis of the properties in the vicinity with the 300 feet of the subject property. We are the two largest left. And I'm starting to get the masterism back out because now I can't see any of the numbers. I apologize. Thank you. Yeah. This is an analysis of in terms of the most rural area, no problem of the stories in parking for all adjacent structures within the 300 feet radius from the subject property. Our property is the largest, not at all, but the 30,000 square feet. There are only two large cranes in that. Most of the properties are there are, there are significant number of properties that are really familiar in that lack parking spaces and they have an excessive height and an FAR. So to further elaborate to our terms instead, we made only the patient on the coordinates except for the FAR, which would be exceeding just by a fraction of 0.08. And also, and use problems. Parking is deficient just by two, but it's one to one ratio. So this is slightly better than most of the property we've been seeing in that the next slide. And this is our property summary of the violations and how we exceed the requirements as you can see in this minimum. And then the final slide. So we met in three times with the JPSC, the Zoni committee. We had an abolishing speeding as well. We offered several conceptions. We reduced the size of addition. We eliminated one unit and reduced it from six, from seven units to six, which is what we have now. A concern expressed by one of the real aborder asked us to reduce the rear deck. And that was significantly reduced as well. We eliminated an existing side deck on the right side of the property, while the existing. That was a concern to them, we eliminated that. There were several concerns about the trees, where we're property in the tree, who will address that, who will decide to build the landscaping plans by landscape architecting the deck process. We would be installing fences in order to conceal the part of the part. And I imagine that this project would be subject to the equity in seven unit, which might be further considered in the deck. We were to the final slide. We apologize for making this long. I just want to go up as much as we measure as possible. So, the different, this building has architectural significance. It's not a quality of Massachusetts cultural records, the information system, and the Massachusetts Historical Commission. This is not a landmark, and this building has not been distributed yet. Although the area has been inventory, and it has architectural significance, due to a connection with the person that built this. It's a great revival architectural, and it has some significance. But again, it's not an landmark, this, and it's not an historic landmark. Just a context. That being said, we are planning to model and further structure exactly as this, so there will be no changes to that at all. Everything else will happen towards the bridge of the building. And without I open to any questions, I have one more. I have heard of the length of the building compared to 309, just not have. 309 would be the building of the bright. When you're looking at Google Maps, it's on the left. If you saw the left standing in front of all social property, it's a difficult log of studies instead of roadhouse, and the addresses are one to three-quarter, plays, and I don't remember that. Place is the opposite public. Those are the addresses, and there are three units in each one of those buildings. What I tell you are of line-in. And it is significant in public. Okay. Our building is as well as buildings, in relationship to all adjacent buildings. In your presentation, I thought I heard you mentioned basement dwellings, but in the previous slide, it says you eliminated basement dwellings. Can you please come from? Initially, we had two basement units. And walking with the community, and offering concessions, we reduced the number of minutes from seven to six, by eliminating one of the units in the basement. So there's still a basement dwelling. And it's one of one basement patterns. Questions from the board? Hearing none, we have proper testimony. Morning Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is Caroline Peters from the Office of Neighborhood Services. Our office held in the butters meeting for this project on September 23rd, 2023. And this project went before that you make a plain name, put Council zoning committee three times. The zoning committee held a split vote on this project, and therefore does not recommend either approval or denial on this matter. We received a letter of opposition signed by 12 of butters, starting the number of units, insufficient all street parking and reduced braineries as the primary concerns. We have not received any letters of support. And at this time, we'd like to defer to the judgment of the board. Thank you. Thank you. It's no additional raise hands, Madam Chair. Thank you. Any other questions? Madam Chair, someone just raised a hand. Just lowered it, Madam Chair. Okay. They just wasted a key. Okay. We have two additional raise hands now. Okay. Let's get with them. Thank you. Well, it's trying to just say a request to unmute you. Hi. Can you hear me? Yes. Okay. Hi. So first of all, we're happy to see that somebody wants to take care of this neighborhood I saw, which is kind of been in this condition for decades. But the density is just too much. I think the parking is the situation is untenable. I'm not sure the parking spaces are to cold. I think there's supposed to be a half by 20 and they have a few letters 7 by 18. And how you lived in the neighborhood since 1987. I just want to say, there's no way to put this now. People are not going to be able to park in that backyard. There's insufficient real estate given to trash and disposal if you're having six units. The basement, I guess the proposal unit in the new park, but in the old part of the house, I know it's moldy. I don't know if it's, Elf has to be remediation just because that home has been so abandoned and so uncareful for so many years. So we're happy something's going to be done. We just think the scale is enormous for the property and it might be the same length as the 309. But this was a nice property that it had a backyard. On six units with a basement, it just seems excessive and we just ask for some recognition of us as residents and taxpayers. That's it. Thank you. Ma'am, are you? Let's complete public comments. Are there any other ways to hand stuff in me? Yes. I said to request a meeting. State your name and address for the record please. Directly request the street in a three-dicker unit which I own and I've seen this building from basically 1980 from when I bought my property. Yes, it is deteriorated and I'd like to see something done with it. But again, the density and putting six units in it, I'm at fairly small. It is overwhelming. It initially was registered as a two family. So now they want to make six units which seems obviously excessive. You put six parking spots in it. You know that already the area is overwhelmed by parking on the street. This is going to bring more parking into it from people that visit the other people. And again, this presents parking issues for the people that live here. So it just seems that they're cramming just too much into this building. And even though they want to build more in the back, it just presents more density. Okay, thanks. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Mr. Santander, do you want to respond briefly? Yes, yes, ma'am. I just want to comment on these two other words. The parking spaces, she's correct. There are half of these spaces on the other one in the office, 790. And that is in a settlement, a settlement dimensions by coal. 50% of them can work seed, 790 by 18th. We are insufficient in terms of the excessive required of parking, which is 1.25 per unit. And that brings in the required overall spaces to 8, then we only have 6, which is the ratio 1 to 1. So that definitely significantly reduces the number of honest parking that may be required if any. And the other thing is that this project is less than a point of a mile of public transportation. So this also applies it oriented, which is one of the things only in drafts and changes for the zoning code. In terms of available space, this is a very large amount by most of the state, which is almost 10,000, is 50. And the visual model we are able to cover, the overall parking spaces, it is still compliant with all the setbacks and use of an open space. Is there a testament to the fact that it's really not a grant that would for the worst part that stay within the existing open space? With exceptional means. OK, thank you. Any other questions from the board? I'm Matthew. There were comments from the Disadoration Commission. I don't know, Mr. St. Charles, where are those? Feel free to read them into the record please? The proposed building appears to have no accessible entrance. And the property includes extensive renovations, at least one of the common entrances should be made accessible. Was there another question or comment from board members? Want to have them all? Well, I have a question, Madam Chair. Regarding the trash. So I see it on the landscape plan. It's behind space number five. There's an enclosed trash recycling area. It looks like the door or kind of gate. Whatever, it would be opens up. An orientation with the front. I'm just wondering how that would function. Since it opens onto a grass area. Who's picking it up? Are they bringing bins out to the street? Is it private? Pick up those questions. Oh, that's a lot of fun. So disability and trash can you address those here? Absolutely. In terms of the disability, I was very one of them, but I'll be happy to answer that. First of all, the fact we want to see about our contextual access board regulations requires that if you do substantial renovations to the entrance from the building, then that entrance, if there are no new components, has to comply with the access code. Because of the character of this building, we are not actually entering the main entrance. The main entrance will remain. And on the dark, it can stay no excessive. That being said, there is a small walkway to the basement unit that we can make it. It is accessible. And we can detail those plans and make that even accessible. And finally, with respect to the trash, it also, 12 and 4 units are required to be the accessibility requirements. We are only six. And that puts you all in a different category, except for the entrance. In terms of the trash, those are issues that were raised through our buildings, really community, but as you understand, the plans presented to the ZBA, those are not construction documents. And then I will add details, such as that that we will be a workout and development, a work that we do in the BPD, the eight-sided-view process. That might not be a final location, or perhaps even adequate, for the storage of garbage, or even for the wall of a store, to be trust one of the places. Questions and meetings. But we definitely will address that, and we will be co-op-cop-life. Any other questions? Is there a motion? Madam Chair, I have one more raise hand. I just want to... Okay, last raise hand. 3 or 5, chestnut unit one. Hi, 3 or 1, chestnut. I just wanted to acknowledge that the trash was brought out that multiple meetings. It just was a concern that was brought up at meetings before, and I think the presenters said that it hadn't been addressed at all. So, just wanted to point out, I've attended all the meetings, and it has been a concern for us as well. Thank you. Okay. Thank you. Would that be a motion? Madam Chair, I'll put for a motion of approval with a provisome that the project undergoes BPD design review. To preserve existing historic detailing for the addition to complement the historic structure. And the second provisor will be to allow BPD to do a site plan review to ensure that there is an accessible path to a unit and that you have a solution for trash and to kind of review the parking layout to ensure adequate maneuverability. Okay, is there a second? Take one. Mr. Stemberidge? Yeah. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Mr. Langham? Yes. Ms. Vivo? Yes. Ms. Bervaraza? Yes. Chair votes yes, the motion carries. Thank you. At this point, we'll move on to the meet discussion scheduled for the 30th. First case has been referred so that takes us to case BOA 1341015 at the address of 146 N Street. Yes. The applicant will be represented by the report. Stan? I'm going to send a request to the motion to the cameras. Madam Chair, I'm not sure the owner is on, but I'm going to reserve the address of my Encyclical Street in Charlestown and I can design it in one of the parking from the architect who the planner. Hello, we are on to it. Okay, I think Mr. Stirling is trying to get on. Okay. He had planned to be represented. And so he has a little Mr. Stirling, are you prepared to present? I am on his growl. It looks like my video is having some trouble with the website of the contract. Yeah, I think you may have to go without video, sir. Can you hear us out? All right. I just need whatever you'd proceed. So the project is simply to add a private roof deck to their home at the top floor of this multi-storing welling on M Street. I feel scrolled down to the next page. Next page to the whole floor. I am pretty basically the live-on the console of this unit and we will be adding our spiral staircase within the building to go out to a private roof deck about three. We had previously proposed a deck in the rear of the building or a stair in the rear of the building that the neighbors asked us to make more in town. And that's why we've elected to go with a little bit of unconventional interior spiral staircase. But that's what kind of fits with the pager unit and so a Boston apartment. So you see here a plan of the third floor in the middle of the building, the roof deck itself being 25, 13 foot 2, and then a section cut through showing how that spiral staircase would work. Next slide, I think that there is a lot to be seen how it looks in that elevations. Next slide, I think that that's probably the rest of the existing plans that you can see going to work out as today. But it's not a huge unit. I'm not a huge unit, so there aren't a lot of options to where we could put the stairs in the rear of the deck. Are there questions from the board? Hearing not, can I public test the money? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor Newman with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This time the Mayor's logic deferred to the judgment that's board some back information in the community process on as for a source in a butters meeting back in September 26th of 2023. The applicant after receiving feedback from the civic association and from a butters made reductions to the size of the roof deck to address concerns about potential noise nuisance and other issues. After receiving those plans, they connected with the City Point Neighborhood Association, which offers their support for the proposal and our office also received two letters in support from a butters which we forwarded to this board. That information will refer to the board at this time. Thank you. Thank you. I have one raised here in Madam Chair. Thank you, Madam Chair. I'm sent up with a request to unmute you. Thank you. Can you hear me? Yes. Okay. So what Connor Newman is saying is correct. Most of it. I do want to go on the record as stating that in a butters meeting was held in 2022 and suddenly this project came before a ZBA hearing of this year of March, April of 2024. So we were quite surprised that this came forward. We did ask for another butters meeting since it was over a year and Connor Newman denied that request but did allow the proponent to come before the City Point Neighborhood Association. So I want that on the record in so far as a process. The City Point Neighborhood Association did in fact vote to support this rendition of this roof deck but we would like to say that we don't want this to set precedent on M Street for roof decks. Thank you. Okay. Thank you. Is one additional raise here? Laura? Laura, you can unmute. So thank you, Madam Chair. Good afternoon, Madam Chair and members of the board. This is Laura from Carson Fence Office. Carson Fence, same like to go record a position. Due to a lack of community process and engagement, specifically the neighborhood A butters that was held in 2022 and no A butters meeting has been held in over a year and a half. This have provided no opportunity for A butters and neighbors unless they were both members and attend that the neighborhood association meeting. Through a fresh to memory on this project or examine any changes that may have been made during this extensive period of time. It is wholly a reasonable with the amount of development and community meetings in South Boston that neighbors and A butters will be able to weigh in an informal opinion on this proposal. With the last A butters meeting near the year and a half ago. In addition, it is unfair for new neighbors who may not have lived here in 2022. I don't and have no knowledge of this project that requires some relief from the city nearby. Counselor's name is respectfully request that this proposal be denied due to the precedent this will set. And so that village just to make a community process and A butters meeting can take place without neighbors having to go back to their notes and memories for a meeting that happened in 2022. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair and members of the board, I think we resolve the audio of the issues we're having for a linking very much of the opportunity to request the variance for this. I'm sorry I'm struggling in the owner with my background in the sterling year. We're both at one police station in Street. It responds to the comments about the lack of a different community process over the last year and a half. During the first of our meeting you had no opposition to both of support and recognize in response to the comment that there hasn't been a conversation with the community over the last year and a half. That's not true. There was a flaring as to the civic association meeting prior to the meeting where we were then received my neighborhood association in response in between the bottom of the meeting and the last about the meeting, the current last about the meeting of the last neighborhood association meeting. We have met with the neighborhood association again to present the first set of plans which was a learning that which we are used in size to the neighborhood association's comments about it. Just wanted to put that out as well as referred to the interest in matters of support and further emphasize that we have this new point neighborhood association's support for this project. Thank you. Other questions from the board? Hearing none may have a motion. My own share. I would like to make a motion of separate one. Mr. Second. Okay. Mr. Stambridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. As we love. Yes. Miss Betta Baraza. Yes. Chair votes yes. The motion carries. Next we have the motion. Next we have the case of BLA. 1563584. The address of two Hillsboro Street. This project, this case is a construct from the mayor's office of housing. And it's the applicant's and or their representative's president. All the day splintered work with. I'm going to make your panelist. Good afternoon madam chair of members of the board. Business address is 236 Huntington Ave in Boston. With me today is also Bill Metson. Harry also from New Atlantic Development and Kendra Howie-Weldt of Icon Architecture. I'm here today presenting number two Hillsboro. This project is an offshoot of the Humphrey Street artist studio's project located just to the east of the site. In 2022 working with the mayor's office of arts and culture and the artists at the Humphrey Street Studios were able to help the artist form a nonprofit, secure financing and purchase their building. With funding provided by the city and private sources we were able to preserve the affordable studio space and perpetuity for a diverse group of long-term tenants. A total of 45 studios have been preserved, providing affordable workspace for artists including painters, photographers, sculptors, graphic artists, woodworkers, mixed media artists, a blacksmith and architect and many others. Many of whom operate small businesses out of their studios providing employment opportunities in addition to their art. Including the acquisition of this building was a vacant lot behind the Humphrey Street Studios located at the end of Hillsboro Street tucked in behind more recently completed in the Go Block. Working with the artists at Humphrey's the mayor's office of arts and culture, the mayor's office of housing we created a program consisting entirely of affordable condos ranging from studios to three bedrooms with 18 of the 21 units being designed as live work units with a preference for certified artists. In addition to the live work units the building will have displaced space throughout the common area, a gallery at the lobby and shared workspace in the basement. The zoning relief requested includes use regulations for multi-family residential, artists mix use, accessory parking, dimension regulations for FAR, number of stories, height, a lot width and rear-year occupancy in addition to parking and loading requirements. The project is also included, this project also includes the abandonment of an unapproved section that was very street. It approved this project with great channel and units of desperate leapfitted affordable housing by developing underutilized vacant lot directly adjacent to the up and corner commuter rail stop. The building is designed to be passive house certified, 100% electric with zero emissions. As part of our outreach efforts we've met with the Abutters 1-on-1 health community meetings with the BPDA and met with the DSNI Sustainability Development Committee and we've received an overwhelming amount of support. With us we have over 50 layers of support from neighbors and abutters. Additionally the project has already received its funding award from the mayor's office of housing and approval from the BPDA without our pause and take any questions. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Hearing none, we have public testimony. Stephanie? You can unmute yourself. Thank you. Good afternoon and welcome Chair and members of the board. My name is Stephanie Silva and I'm a housing development officer with the mayor's office of housing. The mayor's office of housing supports this fully affordable home ownership project and has been working with the team since their application for funding in fall 2023. The team was awarded funds based upon their response to M.O.H.O's annual funding ground RFP for affordable housing development proposals and we will continue to work with the team as they progress toward instruction. Thank you. William? Hello Madam Chair, members of the board. Liam Rayman from Council of Fitzgerald's office. Obviously go on record to support the proposal. I have one additional raise here, Madam Chair. Please. I send to request to own media. State you may not just put a record please. Hi, thank you Madam Chair. My name is Camille Platt. I'm actually the BPDA project manager for the Two Hills Ferro Street Project. I am speaking in support of the 44th Homeownership project today. We at the BPDA held a virtual public meeting for the project on October 24, 2023. Just about one month after they filed. Meeting was well attended and nothing but positive feedback on the current state of the project. Our review team worked with the proponents to ensure the neighborhood context was met in standards adhered to. So again, going on record and support. Thank you for your time. Thank you. No additional raise here, Madam Chair. Would that be a motion? Madam Chair, this is a really good project. I appreciate the amount of housing and perpetuity and with that, I make a motion of approval with the BPDA review. Is there a second? That. Mr. Stambridge. Yeah. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Ms. Wiewo. Yes. Ms. Betapasa. Yes. Sherval, it's yes. The motion carries. Thank you. Okay. With the next two cases deferred, it looks like we are on break to one. Here, that's Madam Chair. All right. See you all then. Recording stopped. Comm listing act five.