 Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning. The city of Boston zoning board of appeal hearing for April 9, 2024 is now in session. This hearing is being conducted in accordance with the applicable provisions of the open meeting hall, the updated provisions enacted by the legislature last year. The new law allows the board to continue its practice of voting virtual hearings until March 2025. The hearing of the board is being held remotely via the Zoom webinar event platform. The hearing is also being live streamed. In order to ensure this hearing of the board is open to the public, members of the public may access this hearing through telephone and video conferencing. The information for connecting to this hearing is listed on today's hearing agenda, which is posted on the public notices page of the city's website, Boston.gov. Members of the public will enter the virtual hearing as attendees, which means you will not see yourself on the screen and you will be muted throughout unless administratively unmuted when asked to comment. When members, applicants and their attorneys or representatives will participate in the hearing as panelists and they will appear alongside the presentation materials when speaking panelists are strongly encouraged to keep video on while presenting to the board. As with our in-person meetings, comments and support will be followed by comments and opposition. The order of comments is as follows. The members of the public will be selected officials, representatives of elected officials and members of the public. The chair may live at the number of people called upon to offer a comment and the time for commenting as time constraints are. For that reason, the board prefers to hear from members of the public who are most impacted by a project that is those individuals who live closest to the project. If you wish to comment on an appeal, please click the raise hand button along the bottom of your screen in the Zoom webinar platform. Click it again and your hand should go down. When the host sees your hand, you will receive a request to unmute yourself, select yes and you should be able to talk. If you are connected to the hearing by telephone, please press star nine to raise and lower your hand. You must press star six to unmute yourself after you receive the request from the host. Those called upon to comment will be asked to state their name and address first and then can provide their comment. In the interest of time and to ensure that you have enough time to do so, please raise your hand as soon as Mr. Stembridge reads the address into the record. Do not raise your hand before the relevant address is called. The meeting most will not known to call on you at the appropriate time. Okay, Mr. Stembridge. Good morning, Madam Chair. Good morning, Mr. Valencia. We're more than my own share of presents. Good morning, Ms. Wewell. Ms. Wewell, are you muted? I'm sorry. Hey, we'll circle back. I see her. Mr. Langham. Good morning, Madam Chair. Good morning, Ms. Betapraza. Good morning, Madam Chair. Good morning, Madam Chair. Good morning, Madam Chair. Good morning, Ms. Wewell. I think you're still muted, Ms. Wewell. I'm sorry, Madam Chair. My Zoom has been acting up. I am here, but I might just take a moment to restart my computer, so I will be right back. Okay, that sounds good. Okay, so with that, I will turn it over to Mr. Stembridge. Yeah, please, Mr. Stembridge. Thank you, Madam Chair. We will start off today with the approval of the hearing minutes. Excuse me, Madam Chair. These minutes are from March 21st and March 26th of this year. I'll make a motion to accept you. Good morning. Is there a second? Not yet. Mr. Stembridge. Yeah. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Wewell. I'll circle back to her, Mr. Langham. Yes. Ms. Betapraza. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Ms. Wewell back. Okay, if not, let me have enough for that mocha to accept the motion. Please proceed. Next we will move on to the extension schedule for 9.30 AM. At this point, I will read the case number and the address for all of them, one behind another. And then I will turn it over to Madam Chair to see if there are any questions or any. Yes. So just a quick, so as folks know, Mr. Coburn sent the members all of the extension information and reasoning for the extensions. And so what we'd like to do is if you have any questions to ask them, to ask them, but to make one motion at the end to approve the extension as requested. So with that, I'll have Mr. Stembridge read them all into the right one first. My, my, my, my, all of you, I need to recuse from there for the three cases. Okay. Well, he's going to read them all. So I guess you, if it makes sense to use himself, that's fine. Yeah. Okay. Thank you. With that, we will begin with case B.O.A. 12667. The three are with the address of four to 18, chain, street. Next, we have case B.O.A. 12667. With the address of three, sky, street. Then we have case B.O.A. 12667. Three, two, with the address of 20 to 28, chain, street. Next, we have case B.O.A. 10671 117. With the address of six, self-calibre, then we have case B.O.A. 102 4095. With the address of 11, manual street. Then we have case B.O.A. 8183. 777 with the address of 101, terrorist street. Next, we have case B.O.A. 768. 729 with the address of 79 to 89 west Broadway. After that, we have case B.O.A. 1295864 with the address of six, r, Ericsson street. Along with that, we have case B.O.A. 12957. 71 with the address of eight, r, Ericsson street. In addition to that, we have case B.O.A. 1295867 with the address of 18, r, Ericsson street. And so, next, we have case B.O.A. 1295870 with the address of 20, r, Ericsson street. Then we have case B.O.A. 942 7901 with the address of two star street. After that, we have case B.O.A. 942 824 with the address of 12 to Con Road. And finally, for the extension, we have case B.O.A. 942 825 with the address of 14 to Con Road. And that is the extension that we have for this morning. Okay. We have a motion to approve the extensions as requested. A motion to approve the extensions as requested. Is there a second? Yes. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Valencia? My name is Chef. We have been on the board for three cases. Okay. Ms. Wewow? Yes. Mr. Lennon? Yes, ma'am. Ms. Berparozo? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Yes. That will then take us to the board final. Oppenger hearing. Schedule for 930 AM. The first case we have is case B.O.A. 486152 with the address of 270. Or chest or Avenue. Is the applicant's end or their representative's point to the board? Yes. Good morning, Madam Chair and members of the board. Mark LeCas, LeCas, LaSos, 75 Arlington Street in Boston. Attorney for the project proponent. And with me this morning as representatives of the proponent are Scott Aron and Mark Duffton and our architect Jim Rohnstog from M. Mark. This is the building that is proposed to be constructed of the corner of Dorchester Avenue and B. Street in South Boston, which is presently in our construction site for those of you familiar with the location. It was originally approved as a 114 unit building by this board in July of 2017 and the current extension is valid through July 14 of this year. A construction started in late 2019 consisting of demolition of the existing warehouse and industrial buildings at the site and then construction ran straight into the COVID construction moratorium in March of 2020 and the excavation of the site for the garage came to halt. Their subsequent aid was a change in ownership. In 2022 there was another project proponent that advanced. I noticed a project change with the BPDA but that was abandoned because of the then interest rate hikes by the Fed during that time period. That brings us to the current proposal which is before you today for Board Final Arbor to review. In September of 2023 I noticed a project change from SPI out with the BPDA. Essentially seeking to build exactly the building that had been approved by the BPDA in this board. But changing the programming from condominium to rental. We had a series of public meetings sponsored by the BPDA and this project continues to have universal support in the neighborhood. The BPDA board approved the notice of project change on December 14 of 2023 and the changes that were part of that approval. Again changing the 114 units from condo to rental. Reduction of the parking consistent with the South Boston Transportation Access Plan and the plan for Dorchester F from 70 spaces in the underground garage to 20. That is because of elimination of full level of underground parking to make the project more economically feasible and to eliminate some of the construction difficulties given that the site is directly above a red line tunnel. Another change with lowering the B Street Plaza public park to grade to make it a lot more accessible and pleasing as part of the public room. Moving the parking garage entrance from west 6th Street on the side of the building to the front of the building on the E Street to enable some public ground improvements on west 6th Street and the building and the love under when the series of design changes as well. All of which were vetted with the BPDA staff architects and urban designers as part of the notice of project change process. What does not change about the building is the unit count 114 units the central building envelope. The fact there are 20 IDP units which is 17% and that consists of 13% base IDP requirement plus 4% density bonus under plan Dorchester F for South Boston. The project has always been proposed. What also has not changed is 2,250 square feet of street level commercial space for ultimate self defense which is a youth program in South Boston that was in one of the existing buildings has temporarily moved to another location but will come back to occupy that space at a below market commercial rate. It is a super popular program for youth in South Boston more than before to having them back in the building. Public ground improvements trees and sidewalks bike storage 416 bicycles a blue bike station and other mitigation is set forth in the BPDA memo. We submitted this package to ISD for the examiner review and the conclusion consistent with our request is that no further or other zoning relief is necessary that the no surprise change represents a slight reduction of the overall scale of the building and the BPDA board vote specifically found. The program is described in the NPC do not significantly increase the potential impacts arising from the project located at 270 Dorchester F in our within scope of required review and provides efficient mitigation measures to minimize these impacts and the BPDA waived further review of the project subject to continuing design review about BPDA. So the purpose of today's request of this board is simply to conform the most recent set plans submitted to ISD reviewed by ISD to conform those plans to the zoning relief of this board that is currently placed with that. Thank you Mr. Ocas. Any questions from the board? I just have a question either to the BPDA project manager over to Mark in regards to the notice of project change. Did you hear any feedback from the public in regards to the reduction of parking? Yes, not surprisingly there is this little opinion. The Best Broadway Neighbor Association was largely supportive of that. The BPDA urban plan is we're largely supportive of that because it's consistent with the most recent South Boston transportation plans, but not surprisingly there are also some voices in the community that thought the reduction was too steep and that there ought to be a higher number. So we tried to strike a balance between all those competing interests and landed at 20 parking spaces with the elimination one level given that it's just basically a three minute walk from the Broadway T station, which has at least six bus lines in addition to the red line. Okay, thank you. No further questions. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Hearing none, may I have a motion? I don't sure I'd like to put forward motion approval. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Sanbridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Mewel. Yes. Mr. Langham. Mr. Langham. Mr. Rasmus. Yes. Okay. Thank you. Mr. Betaparaza. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Rasmus. Yes. Mr. Rasmus, yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you so much. Next, we have a second board file operating case that being case B.O.A. 143. 3649 for the address of 554 to 562 Columbia Road. Is the applicant and or would they represent this press? Would they explain to the board for it? Yes. Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Attorney Nick Sizzulo, McDermott, Crolti, Miller, and Hamley, LLP, here in Boston, zoning and permitting attorneys for the project. We did submit a presentation, Madam Chair, I don't know if Madam Ambassador is able to pull it up or not. But with me today, perfect. Thank you. Next slide would be, thank you Madam Ambassador or Mr. Ambassador if it could work. With me today is Mike Rooney, a project proponent from 554 Columbia Road, LLP in Jim Podesky, who is our architect from the architectural team. Next slide. This is just the summary of the changes. This project was originally approved by this board in March of 2023. So a little bit over a year ago, it is an article 80 large project review project. These changes were approved by the BPD-8 board in December for these changes under article 80 large project review. You can see a summary of these changes. It has still remained 65 units of all affordable housing. The main change here is this has now been a change of programming to senior affordable housing. And with that, there has been a removal of the previously proposed 24 parking spaces under article 80 large project review. But with that, in response to those changes to remove those parking spaces, you'll see that we've added a drop off pickup area specifically on site on Arian Street, which is the side street off of Columbia Road. We've also Arian Daryne Street to 14 feet, whereas previously it was 11 feet also the health of these drop offs and pickups. We've approved indoor and outdoor amenity spaces. And the programming still remains to preserve the existing Fox Hall building, which is on site today. Next slide. And I'll move through these sites very quickly now chair, but this is the project site itself. It's about 20,000 square feet. It's an office corner, doorchester neighborhood of Boston. The site is currently occupied by the four story Fox Hall building. You can see towards the front of the site on Columbia Road. There's also a very large surface parking area and kind of vacant area and garage to the rear. And it's at the corner of Columbia Road and that's Arian Street to the south. You can see there as well. Next slide, please. Again, just existing conditions. You can see Fox Hall and the vast unimproved surface parking and garage to the rear of the site. Next slide, please. And this is just a show. So this is what was approved. You can see the building as approved here. And then we're going to juxtapose that against the next slide if you can scroll down to show the proposed building on the next slide. And this is the proposed building in front of the board today. And you can see there's a reduction in massing between the two buildings. The Fox Hall building to remain and be renovated. And then the new addition of senior housing to the rear. The massing has been reduced and instead of being fully connected to Fox Hall, it's now connected by a two story connector between the two buildings, which further breaks down the massing, allows light air, et cetera. And then you can start to see here in tan kind of that jog in where the pickup drop off area would be proposed, allowing direct access into the lobby in some open space as well for the senior program. Next slide, please. This is just another view from the from the rear. You can see down areas, airing street again. You can see the plantings along airing street, the jogging and how it's wide to allow for better pickup in drop off. Next slide, please. Another view as you can see, it's not very visible behind Fox Hall from street level. You can see on the left, you can start to see the building as you move on airing street. Next slide. This slide is just a plot plan. It's just a show again before. And everyone on the proposal for the connector in the new building. That's pulled back off of the existing Fox Hall building in the footprint of the proposed new building on the site. Next slide, please. Do you want to pause here for a second to see if there are questions from the board? Absolutely, Madam Chair. Sorry, I was just trying to be as sufficient as possible, but we're happy to stop here. No worries. I mean, just to confirm, it seems like you're not exacerbating any of the conditions that we approve previously. Correct? You're improving some and others remain the same, correct? 100% of Madam Chair, and if the Madam Ambassador goes down a few slides, there is a chart. Floor plans keep going, keep going, perfect. Right here, Madam Chair. That's a certain amount of change. Thank you. Specifically, Nancy, your question. There's no new zoning relief needed. There's a slight decrease in height, actually. And there's a drop in FAR by about 0.7 from 3.95 to 3.24. Again, by re-jiggering kind of a connection between the two buildings. And then there is a reduction in parking because of the senior programming. But that is under our quality large project review for off-street parking and loading. And we try to mitigate that by some of the programming and by also adding that off-street loading on our own site on our street. But to answer your direct question, yes. Thank you. Other questions from the board? I guess my question is very similar to the previous proposal in regards to the notice of project change, what feedback to to receive from the community and either the BPA project manager can respond. But I would be curious to know how the community felt again with the reduction of parking from 24 to 0. Yeah, I can answer that. It's better for us. I don't see Stephen R.V. on who is our project manager for this project. So I guess it will fall to me. If I may, I would like to just say did it to what attorney LeCasse said. I think it was the programming was the driver of this. No pun intended. This was the reason why the reduction in parking. I think if we were just doing affordable housing and remaining that perhaps it wouldn't have been proposed as such, but the change to senior programming. The fact that we are around the corner from the outcomes corner. I think we did our best to explain why we were doing it and why it's because of the programming. I think we got approval from the BPA and from the folks in planning for this change as well. So I would be remiss if we didn't say you didn't hear some concerns, but I do think that a lot of those concerns were laid by the programming change as well to senior housing and the faculty. All affordable in the location and a very walkable. Thank you for that response. Any other questions from the board? Here in Nudmay, have a motion. I'll move to a group. Ma'am, second. Second. Mr. Stabbridge. Yeah. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Is we well? Yes. Mr. Langen. Yes. Better for us up? Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Sure. Awesome. Just motion carries. Good luck. Thank you very much. Next we'll move on to the groundwater conservation over the district. It's getting a four, nine, thirty. And with that, we have case B-O-A, one, five, seven, three, two, two, one. With the address of two, any one, two, two, eight, three, five from street. I also believe this is an R-80 product. So if the applicant and the representative will be exploring for the board board. Yes. Thank you, Mr. Stabbridge. Good morning, Madam Chair and Members of the board. My name is George Marancy. I'm an attorney for Business Adder. It's a 350 West Broadway in South Boston. Mr. Stabbridge is correct. This is an article 80 matter. It is a zoning compliant that is here before the board for a Chicago approval only. I represent Boston Medical Properties and its principal ad-inverance. My client is proposing one of the first office to residential conversions in the downtown. Under the downtown residential conversion pilot program. We've been working with the BPDA for a number of months. This project would see floors two through six of the six story building located at 281-283 Franklin Street in the downtown. Converted from their present commercial use to 15 apartment units. Nine studio units and six one bedrooms as part of the pilot program. 17% of the units required is affordable. My client is proposing three IDP units for affordability. Component of 20% for this project. This is a zoning compliant project. It does require only G-COP permit. I believe Mr. Simanelli can testify. We'll testify that he has both letters. Without a pause of day, any questions that members may have. Great. Thank you. Is Mr. Simanelli on? Yes, Madam Chair. Good morning. Members of the board. Christian Simanelli, Boston, where I want to trust. We have both G-COP letters from the applicant. Great. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Okay. Great. I commend you for being one of the first. Good luck. Any questions without any motion? I'll share the motion. I'll further work. We have a second. Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Viguero. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Ms. Berberasa. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Yes. Chair also votes. Yes. Motion carries. Thank you. Next, we'll go to the hearing schedule for 9.30 a.m. At this time, I'll ask that there are any request for, withdrawals or deferrals from the 9.30 hearing? No. Then we'll go to the first case, which is case B.O.A. 156-5083, with the address of 144 Wester Street. The applicant can go to the representative. I believe Mr. Volga, the chairman of the council, will take the points of the board. Yes. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. Yes. Oh, you two devices on. Yes. Something else does. Okay. Let's mute everyone else, please. I think so. Are we okay now? Mark LeCast, LeCast, LaSla, 75 Arlington Street in Boston, attorney for the applicant, who is also on the call today. Jazz Bogo is the project proponent and his project manager, Pellahons and our architect, Pedro Lucas from Zephyr, will explain the floor plans. Before you end the screen, is an image of the existing building, is somewhat unusual for the typology of buildings. What? Outbound. Excuse me. It's a large floor plate building, essentially two buildings. There's always been somewhat larger multi-family building, really undergoing a carbon evasion of the existing eight units, being completely reconfigured to create five large air family size units, with the addition of an elevator to make the building fully accessible. At the rear of the building, we are infilling up to the line of the existing rear stairwell, to create slight additional living area in each unit, and adding rear decks, which are consistent with the decks, similar to that in the south end. You'll note in the BPDR relation that the decks are stated as being, projecting nine feet from the rear facade, but the revised to six feet, consistent with the BPDR design standards, as part of the revised plans, which are on the screen before you start. Shown here on the site plan, you see at the rear, along the passageway, there's an existing center block parking garage. Excuse me. Then it's being demolished to create open space for parking at the rear of the building for five vehicles, consistent with five units, and a shed that's being removed as well. The proposal also includes insulation ground-want to recharge system, as this is located in the groundwater conservation overlay district, and in terms of the zoning relief I'll just highlight before I turn it over to Pedro Lucas to talk about the programming and the floor plans. Before you today are three conditional use permits, one being for G-Cod, one being for the extension of the, you can see on this site plan there, that little bump out, that's the rear existing stairway, and the infill that's being proposed goes to the face of that. So that extension into the rear yard is a conditional use in the south end. The roof structure addition on the top to enclose the elevator, and otherwise provide access to the roof deck is also a conditional use permit, and subject to further review by the South of the Memorax Commission, before whom we've appeared twice on an advisory basis and the inhibitions based upon their input. And lastly, the variance, there's a sole variance, and that is for an FAR increase based upon that small rear bump out on either side of the staircase, increasing the overall building FAR from 2.74 to 2.98, which is an 8% increase of the overall building square footage, and that being entirely at the rear of the building. So three conditional use permits, and the one variance for FAR. And the BPDA recommendation of approval notes that all revisions ought to be subject to reviewed by the South of the Memorax Commission, which of course, we have to appear before them, before any further approvals. We had a ISD with that alternative over to Pedro Lucas to describe the floor plans, and the design influence for the changes that are being made. Pedro. Thanks, Bart. Good morning, Madam Chairman, members of the board. My name is Pedro Lucas, and I'm a separate architect. I just have 315 A Street. As a scribe, we're here seeking one variance for FAR, and approval of conditional uses for a few things to include the rear dex and rigged deck at 144. 144 Worcester Street marked a great job at summarizing this. So I might overlap some of the things he said here, but 144 Worcester Street is a full renovation of a double wide ground stone. It's a conversion for 8 units to 5 family size units that is 2 duplexes side by side at the level 1 and garden level, and then 3, 4, 3s above that. If you could move to page 9, I'll highlight next one. Yeah. I will highlight here and give a brief overview of our variance. Our variance is FAR. Our existing building FAR is 2.74, and we are proposing 2.98, which is a total increase of 0.24. That's an 8% increase in FAR. The FAR increases seen as the infill at the rear that you can see here on the plan, on the left side of the plan above that square, gray square, that infill at the rear increases living space by roughly 120 square feet per floor. This infill aligns to an existing base three tower, and does not project beyond the existing rear yard setback, except by the base three tower. It does not project past the existing party wall with our neighbor to the north, 146 Worcestershire, which you can see represented as the gray line at the sort of plan north here. In addition to the infill, an increase in FAR is proposed through a new roof access. This roof access has been modified to be smaller after several advisory hearings with landmarks and meetings with the community. This roof access is now half the original proposed, and is a total of 176 total square feet of usable space. In addition to housing, life safety, mechanical equipment for the building, circulation to the roof deck, and the elevator overrun. It conforms to the height requirements of the zoning ordinance, and is comparable to the headhouse height found on our neighbor at 146 Worcestershire Street. If you could move to page 11, I think that would be more relevant. In this section, we're also as Mark said, seeking conditional use permits for a roof deck and rear decks. A roof deck complies all the setback requirements, and was designed to not be visible from the street. The railing is considered a similar elevation to the existing masonry parapet between 144 and our neighbors at 146. We propose rear decks for levels 1 through 4 that bump out 6 feet from the infill, and existing masonry tower. These rear decks wrap around the tower to connect back to the building. The 6 foot deck is setback 41 feet 6 inches. And lastly, in addition to these height items, I just wanted to summarize. We think that our project proposes significant improvements in the way of a full restoration of the existing masonry facade that has found itself in this repair. It includes upgrades to life safety, including making a fully sprinkler building. Like Mark said, we are removing a two car garage and storage shed at the rear yard to provide parking for all the proposed units. In contrast to the existing two parking spots for the eight units, we will be providing five parking spots on permeable pavers at the rear, one for each unit. With this rear double wide footprint, we can provide family size units, served by an elevator, along for adaptable units that can be fully accessible with needed. We think we are proposing a unique product representative of unique building. So we wanted to thank you for your time and consideration of this proposal. I'll send this back to Mark. Thank you, Paige. I'm not entirely in that concludes our presentation. And we're happy to take any questions from the board. Thank you. Can you just clarify the roof deck from nine to six feet? Was the six feet part of the community process? Or is that a recent or recent adjustment? So the adjustment from nine to six relates to the rear decks? Sorry, rear decks. Yes. And the initial set of plans that was originally filed with ISD show nine foot decks. But we changed that to six foot having in mind that the BPDA designer used standard foresuch decks is no more than six feet. So the revised set of plans that are before you show six feet. And that's in response to you just realizing that under the design standard six is the standard not nine. So we reduced them to six. Okay. I understand that part. I'm asking whether whether that was part of the community process. So there are a lot of concerns that I'm trying to clarify. Trying to understand if it was in relation to the original nine or this or book six or both. No, there during the community review process. Actually, there was very little discussion about the facts and we voluntarily made that change once we realized that six, you know, six is the design standard or such rear decks in the South Bend. The changes that were made as a result of the not only the community review process, but the advisory review process with landmarks relates to the addition on the roof to how is the elevator overrun and provide access to the roof deck. So the changes that were responsive to community concerns and Southern landmarks guidance and direction. Thank you. Questions from the board. Mark, I have a question regarding your pen house kind of access to the deck. What was the feedback from Boston landmark? We appeared before the landmarks commission twice on an advisory basis because we can't go to them for final approval until we've completed this process. And Pedro was responsive to the commission's comments and concerns about the shape of the penthouse, sloping the roof to make it not visible from the front of the building, reducing the size of it, pulling it back in various locations. So from the first advisory to the second advisory review hearing, a lot of changes were made and I can fairly report that the second advisory review hearing was very positive in the sense that we got the distinct oppression from landmarks commission that all their concerns have been addressed, such that we should proceed to zoning and then come back to them after zoning for further design review of those changes. Thanks for that response. Typically, they have a lot of comments regarding penthouse, but I think you just noted that it's really in regards to visibility from the streets. So I'm glad that those got addressed. Thank you. No further questions? You'll know a PPE recommendation of approval, similar comments that the shape and size of the penthouse have been designed, such that it was designed to minimize the visibility, which is always the goal, of course. Thank you. Other questions from the board? Okay, hearing none, may I apologize for the testimony? Madam Chair, members of the board, on our meeting with the mayor's office of the member of the services. This time the mayor's office I could defer to the judgment of this board. So back information, the community process, ONS hosted a meeting on January 23rd. There were some concerns raised in that a butters meeting, which the applicant sought to hold back the addition on the top of the building. So we received one letter in support, citing what they felt was improvement upon the existing building, as well as the elevator providing disability access for tenant server, rockens, as well as removing the garage increase useful space on the lot. We received six letters in opposition. I believe one is from the Claremont neighborhood association, which is the act of civic in this area. These letters mostly express concerns regarding what they felt was reduced housing, get increased size beyond zoning regulations. A lot of concerns related to the height, with fears that they said the president of the neighborhood, as well as shadows, and they felt that the building was jumping out onto the small residential street with an information referred to the board. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Christian, Seminali, Basterrall, and I trust that we have both the chief on letters from the applicant. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Joe McGepp and City Councilor Aaron Murphy's office would like to go and make an instance of board today. Thank you. Who's our ambassador? Madam Chair, this is Frank Hins. So I see a strict. Yes, yes. Yes, yes. And I see some other office, something. Okay. I'll leave you south, because you're on the set. Thank you to the chair, members of the board. My name is Joy and I'm representing Councilor Thomas Anderson. Councilor appreciate the opportunity to address the board regarding the development plans at one for the four-wester street and the south end. And after carefully considering where we community concerns, she cannot support this measure in its current form. The decision is based on multiple emails that our office received from the community around concerns with how the project would reduce housing units, does not align with zoning regulations and would impact the physical and visual cohesion of the neighborhoods. And more, the community is requesting that developments uphold neighborhood values of maintaining affordable housing and new developments. This decision was not made lightly and is rooted in the councilors commitment to ensure responsible and sustainable developments that align with the best interests of the community. Thank you for your attention to this now. Thank you. We can't hear you. Mr. Gono. We can I see you're not moving, but we can hear you. Is there you want to keep going? Can you hear me now? Yes, we can. Go ahead and Madam Chair and members of the board. Sorry about that. I have a question. John Ryan's office. He represents the Nant and Suffolk District, which includes one for the four-wester street. We submitted a letter from our office opposing the project. Unfortunately, while we appreciate the changes made to the restructure and other parts of the building with the community process, we do stand with the voters and the neighborhood association mentioned previously Climot Neighborhood Association, who unanimously voted against the project. Thank you. Madam Chair, we have four additional raise here. You're going to be going. Now, I'm going to unmute you. Good morning and thank you. My name is Matt Watsy, and I am here in two capacities as a owner. Can you please state your address for the record, too? Located at 146 Wester Street. Thank you. So I directly abut. And as the trustee representing all owners of the building. And the reason for closing the project are directly outlined in the letter submitted by the CNA Climot Neighborhood Association. Thank you. Hi. Are you the raised fans? Yep. Please call. Thank you. Yes, thank you. Thank you to board and Madam Chair. I'm here today representing Bob Arnie, who is the president of the Climot Neighborhood Association. He is unfortunately out with a family medical emergency and apologizes for his not being able to attend. I'm also a member of the board and have been participant in the about our meetings regarding 144 Wester Street. And what has been said in terms of deferring to the letter, and there is a letter that was sent on behalf of Climot Neighborhood Association by Bob April 4th. And just to top of line it, there's, you know, we oppose the project for three key reasons. One is reduced housing yet increased size beyond zoning regulations. The other is opening the door for new opportunities for further developments, especially true for secondary, south and streets. Like Wester Street. And just to state, also, we're not against roof decks and the appropriate access points, but are against the increased height here. And then direct-to-butter impacts. So a lot of the directed butters who may also be raising their hands around the call has expressed impact due to the sight lines based on the structure that is on the existing, the existing plans on the roof. Thank you for your time. Thank you. I'm JNC board positional, right here. I will take two more. I'll take two more. I found the element of. Yeah, I know you. Hello! I hear you speak. Can you hear me? Yes. Yeah, I'm a, Amanda Hernandez from tonight, the Shangravenio A vibe, a southern resident, fourteen years. and I want to hold in support of this project. I throw by the side, the buildings in this repair, I think the changes are coherent to everything else we see in the neighborhood, and I think it's a great project. I don't see any reason why it shouldn't be approved. Thank you. In Thomas. I'll be you. Yeah. Hello Thomas Callers. I have been a South End resident for five years at Forty Hanson Street. I agree with the common that I just heard I feel like the project should be approved. The building is in this repair. There's the units that are being proposed are family sized units, which is coherent with a lot of what you see in the South End. And I believe it's a good development and an improvement to the neighborhood. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. O'Causs can I ask the height that folks are referencing is due to the roof deck, not any additional height to the building itself, the floor is correct. That's right. The soil, but importantly, a matter of chair, height is not one of the grounds for zoning relief that we seek. The height, maximum in this sub-dustry to 70 feet and even with the addition being proposed at the modest size of 175 square feet, there is no height violation. It is less than 70 feet in height. So height is consistent with what we're proposing. So to the multi-family residential use from eight to five, five is also multi-family residential use and that isn't allowed use. So we seek no zoning relief related to height. And of course, the constant tradeoff that we hear about, the desire for a larger family sized units, when you create larger units, of course, you're going to have fewer of them. That's just a function of that desire. There were 21 letters of support sent to this board, which I believe Stephanie has made part of the file. The MFRs and a lot of use, the height is less than 70. And the relief that we seek are three use permits and the sole variance relates to the infill at the rear, which essentially received no comment or opposition and not being very modest at 8%. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Hearing none, may I have a motion? I'll make a motion to approve this with, sorry, landmark review and Boston Waters, super review. I think that it's a reasonable proposal. And I think that the issues that you're fighting are as of right, the only one, but you said the one that people have, nobody has an issue with the one variance that you're seeking. And is there a second? Second. Mr. Stambridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Is we wrong? Yes. Mr. Lennon. Yes. Mr. Vagraza. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Chair also votes yes, the motion carries. Thank you. Thank you, kind lady. Thank you. Next, next we have case of B.O.A. 156-3167. With the address of 647 Trumon Street, is the applicant in the role they represent, the president, if you explain the case with the board. So I'm going to make your panelists, OK? Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is Joe Consolvo, Primate Contractor 647 Trumon Street. The project... Please. Do we lose Mr. Consolvo? No, he just accepted the European President as well. OK. All right. Thank you. Thank you. There it is. There you go. Can you hear me now? Yes, we can. Oh, good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is Joe Consolvo, Primate Contractor for the projects at 647 Trumon Street. The existing space was formerly aptly named 647 Trumon Restaurant, currently a vacant space, which we have permits to remodel the existing lower level and first floor of the space. Revised kitchen plan, upgraded MEPs, and also installing a second staircase in the rear. The former restaurant had additional seating at 645 Trumon Street, but when the subsequent closure, that wall was closed up. We are looking to transfer that seating to the lower level as shown on the plan. And the other variance request was, excuse me, variance needed is parking, obviously, the South and the restaurant. That's not available. Thank you. Questions from the board? Here in that way, I have public testimony. Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board of the Conor Amendment with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. The sound of the Mayor's Office is referred to the judgment of this board. We host in a butter's meeting where we're reportedly no residents were in attendance. The applicant then went on to get in touch with the pilot blog Nabil and association, or offices unaware of any concerns at this time. But that will look to first report it. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Nabil. Minor, you can repeat yourself. Thank you, Madame Ambassador. Madame Chair, members of the board, this is minor for us, her accepting hundreds of union carpenters that they were worked for us. You know, most of them are going to go on a reference for this project. Thank you. Okay, with that, we have motion. Madame Chair, I'd like to perform a motion of approval. May I have a second? Sorry, I can't take one. Mr. Cambridge. No. Thank you. Well, yes, it's just, okay, thank you. Mr. Valencia. Yes. This we love. Yes. Mr. Lino. Yes. Mr. Brasa. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. You're also, yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you, members of the board. Next, we have case B-O-A, 150. 5167, the address of 847 East, East Street. It's the applicant to enter with the representative's brother, will they explain the case of the board? Yes. Good morning, Madame Chair, members of the board. My name is Kevin Cloutier. I'm an attorney with the Cloutier Law firm located at 1990's, Center Street, in West Roxbury. I'm joined today by Chris Drew from the architect, from 686 Architects. I'm also joined by James McClure, who's the owner, applicant, and would-be developer of this property. So I'm just going to give this board a brief overview of the project and some of the zoning matters that are implicated before I turn it over to Mr. Drew to discuss the floor plans in architectural design. This project, if we can maybe go to the second page, please. Thank you so much. Just to give a little neighborhood context, 847 East 5th Street is located in the city point neighborhood in South Boston. Just wanted to have blocks away from the water. This gives you an idea of the block where it's located. And as you can see, and it's an existing state that's a fair amount of what we space on that block. And the lot really, it's two separate parcels, but enjoying ownership. So it's considered a single lot for zoning purposes. And if you can go to the next page, page three, please. And the summary is that the proposal is to redevelop that existing home that you see there. That's a two-family home and to redevelop an entire five-family home by adding an addition to the left and also to the rear. We're utilizing 6,250 square feet of loss base, again, that's to comprise of two separate parcels. And for a zoning overview, we are not seeking any variances. So it's a dimensional perspective. It's compliant. If we can go to the next slide, please, page four. So the zoning relief we're seeking is in the form of two conditionally used permits only. The first is because it's a GPOT requirement. As you can see on the left side there, the property is not almost completely within the GPOT along the boulevard. There's a small portion of the front that falls outside of the 500-foot zone. And because the end product here exceeds 5,000 square feet, GPOT is applicable. This would require us to also present this matter to Boston Parks for review and then for their BPDA design review. It is worth noting that the BPDA does approve, I recommend approval of this project in its current form. The second conditionally used requirement is related to Article 68, there's 29 of the code, which is the roof structure restriction. Now the specific portion of the roof structure restriction that's required to seek the conditionally used relief is because the design is altering the existing roof profile. So as you can see there on the right, because it's an ALT, we're adding an addition on to what currently exists, we are changing that roof. So any addition to this project would essentially alter that roof profile. Therefore, Trader in the conditionally used requirement of Article 68-29. Regarding the zoning, as I mentioned, that we don't need, I think it's proper to place this into context when considering the proposal. The FAR required allowed in this area is 2.0. That would allow for 12,000 square feet, 12,000 square feet of design here. But what we're proposing is an FAR at 1.31 with 7,818 square feet. So we're essentially leaving 4,602 square feet of allowable space on the cutter room floor. And I think it's also worth noting that this project has changed throughout the community process. And during that process, we have ultimately reduced the overall square footage by 1,162 to get us where we're at right now with 7,800 square feet. Regarding the Austrian parking, it's also compliant. That is an issue commonly raised in this area because on-street parking is a problem. So we're compliant. And we did reach that compliance after a community process when we initially did not have enough Austrian parking to satisfy the code. We now do have 7 Austrian parking spaces to the rear. We're also open space compliant. Required would be 1,000 square feet. We have 1,121 square feet of open space. But importantly, 770 square feet of that open space is considered green space. And we got through the community process. This was an issue that was raised. So we were able to kind of redesign to add 104 square feet, the additional square feet of green space to reach that 770 green space that we currently have. Regarding height, the base code in this area is 40 feet. But due to the roof structure restriction, another provision of that article, we have the height is capped at what exists on the wall. So we're at 33 feet 10 inches. That's to mirror the height and become, you know, height reached that conformity with the existing height for that. And again, that was something that resulted as this project changed from its initial conception. Where originally the addition to the left was gonna exceed the height of the existing building. But we brought that down to 33 feet 10 inches. So that's almost, you know, a little more than six feet below the base type code. And in fact, I noticed a big jump. But if you can go to page 14, I just wanna add a little bit of visual to the, with respect to its neighbors, you'll, as you can see, the overall height of this project is fairly well below the button left and right building. Setbacks are compliant at the right side. It is a three foot setback where at 3.9 and the left, right side is existing. What's there, it's not compliant but existing. But we were mindful for the rear addition and pushed that off nine feet. So we're not approaching too far onto the right side. So I say from his own perspective, the, Mr. Drew, was did a great job of being mindful of not adding the density and massing that would be problematic to the neighbors, the neighborhood. And the lack of zoning violations here reflects that design. And finally, just a little bit of public outreach and then Chris will get into the details. But the goal, if we can go to slide five, please, Madam Ambassador, they get our goal, it's to eliminate violations and try to make this project work as well as a key in that area. The project, when we first started, we received a refusal letter that included eight violations. We didn't even take that to the community. We made a decision with the development teams. We got to rework that project, which resulted in a amended plans that resulted into only three violations. We took that project to the community, made a number of changes based upon feedback. And now we've resulted what we have here, just the two conditional use requirements. My, Mr. McFlaur conducted two unofficial sidewalks for the butters on the property. We had two ONS of bar meetings, and a CPNA meeting. And the big change that resulted that I hadn't really all mentioned with the community process was the high conformity with both, with the addition, removal of decks over a living space, which would have triggered a lower roof deck violations. We've increased the off-free parking for compliance. We removed the side deck that was facing the right side neighbors. We reduced the rear second story deck and we removed windows along right and left side elevations and responses to some of the community concern. We certainly weren't able to address all the issues raised by some of the butters in neighborhood, but I think we did a really good job at addressing most. So of course, I'll answer any more questions. But I'd like to turn it over to the architect for his crew to talk through the plans and design. As a question I'm parking. Sure. What's the current parking? Is there any? Well, there is because if you have, maybe if we could go to even page one, the first page. Right now, so that that's the home and Mr. McClure actually redesigned completely renovated this home after he purchased the property in 2020. But as you can see, to the left, there is sufficient off-free parking to driveway, but that is the, that's just, technically a separate parcel. And again, that's the parcel we're seeking to activate with this addition. So the parking will, is all going to be in the rear accessible through a drive-down ramp on the left side of the addition. I get out. I'll leave that to Chris. And how many parking spaces exist currently? I think we're going to be going between three five to arrived in the rear, which you can see for the area. We should be demolished. And then the rest is pretty much paved. One thing that I actually wanted, really emphasized was, you know, the existing green space, if you will, the center property is about six or six feet, just a little over six or seven. We're actually increasing that here, from the seven to seven feet, which is the point. Yes, the room is getting bigger, but we're actually getting really pained just for increasing the green space itself as well as open space. So this is the point. If we give jump down to slide seven degrees, we're going to be going to slide seven degrees. So again, this is a slide of the cement deep wind. So again, what we're counting in the green space areas and we have red blocks in the upper way corner there. And then you'll be able to do that five-part of spaces that are basically under-moving and building. And then the two to the rear that are kind of like outside of the building. But then it's like an open, open-air parking area, if you will. And then the access from the garage to our two-step street. On the side of this, again, the thick-red space of free parking on the right in the first row on the left. So again, the unit of room, unit one is the single ring. It's the system unit of service of the free dance. But in the second row, first unit, I do this through behind that, which is the lower unit. Which will be a one-dej of about 700-mph. And then you do the three to the left, which is the orange, which is another two-bedroom unit that's about 950-watt-watt-watt-watt-watt-watt-watt-watt-watt. And the cyclist, to then again, on the second row, we've started doing it in the front, which is unit one, which is the bi-row unit. From part of that, then we've got four which is in the back, which is 1,300-mph. My units, which is another free-bedroom unit. And then we have the five which is in the lower left, which is another five-row unit. Which is a two-bedroom unit of the rear row, which is 1,300-watt-watt-watt-watt-watt. Next cyclist. You know, it's just that it's a group thing. And next cyclist. So this foundation of food, around Eastwood Street, is in the right side of the nation. As you can see, we moved from the side of the nation to much older, the windows and so. And that would do it, you know, to do the two factors of service. And you can see the opening of part of the history of our elevation too. And this cyclist, within rear elevations of the border, which we have in general, has last railing, has human trust and service. That's been working. We've already been doing stuff along the rear elevations. And then, the rest side of the nation, we have four windows, which we moved in yet. After that, we've said, I didn't know if we were able to get window, to minimize glass and then privacy and all that stuff, and for a part of the neighbors. And the cyclist. Because you still wondering, what is at the post-project? You're going to propose that mission on the road. It's just in the corner of the right. And the cyclist. We're going to just look at that. The pro-vacation of the road. It's just in the right. Next cyclist. There is time we were back here after we did the civil rights project and so that way, you know, in each of the regular steps, we're going to find a red space across the night, green space, throughout the green space, in the backyard. And next cyclist, who's that night in here? Oh, can you go back to that slide? Sorry. On your site plan, you're showing five spaces, exterior parking spaces. But three of those are kind of covered. Covered, is that correct? Who are you? By the deck, you're going to go in the self-concept. And of course, you have two parking spaces here in the front of the left-hand corner. Thank you. Are there other questions from the board? I don't have questions, but I have comments. Okay. Is it better, Rasa? So I'm just looking at the kind of the technology of the street and I mean, you can see it here in terms of the contradictions of the massing, right? So you have some really nice triple-decker, you have some men's or girls, and just the topology that is being proposed with a front driveway. You don't really see that. You either see open, outdoor kind of, off-short parking on the property, or you don't really have kind of covered parking spaces. And then in the front, so in the front, the topology is, you know, two-gabers roads. It seems like it's a very kind of suburban topology to bring here. And in terms of the density of the unit, you know, it's making the apple can't add seven, one, two, three, seven parking spaces, which I've just seen. It feels like a lot to cars. That's just kind of, that's just my comment. Thank you. Any other questions or comments from the board? Here are another ones. Take public testimony. Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, honored with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This time, the Mayor's Office could defer to the judgment of this board with some back information on the community process. So 847-5 has gone through an extensive community process as you heard from the Apple's representation that were two ONS butter's meetings, the first off, October 25th, 2023, the second November 29th, 2023, I also understand that the opponent has hosted sidewalks with the butter's most recently on January 2nd, 2024. The opponent presented their plans before the City Point Neighbor Association on January 10th of 2024. There has been changes made throughout this community process after receiving community feedback. Since October of 2023, our offices received 46 letters in opposition on behalf of 48 individuals. We understand that we've also, the zoning board of appeals has directly received scores more of letters and opposition as well. One of those letters that we did received was the City Point Neighborhood Association, which submitted their letter of opposition and record to the proposal. The main concerns outlines are specifics only where they've been sought. Preservation of green space, also involving the side yard setback and concerns over new constructions proximity to abutting properties, the proposed park and configuration related to maneuverability and safety impacts on a butter's quality of life, such as sunlight, air flow, privacy, and also concerns raised about the lack of design consistency with other plots that are on this block, featuring large yards and different architecture. There's also concerns expressed over the building density as well as being proposed with the number of bedrooms as well as its relation to other issues in south Boston regarding other developments. Without a word, refer to the board at this time. Thank you. Thank you very much. Good morning. Sorry. Sorry. Do we have other raised hands? Four ways. He has Madam Chair. We'll know on you, Brian first. Thank you. Good morning, Madam Chair. Remember the board. My name is Brian Schultz. Can you all hand me on this one? Make sure you can hear me. Yes, sir. Okay, great. I am, my name is Brian Schultz. I live at 8.51 East Fist Street, which is the property directing directly abutting 8.47 to the left of it if you were in front of it. I live in the second unit with my wife and two children. My parents live on the third floor, and they are the owners of all three units at 8.51, and I'll be speaking on their behalf as well as on behalf of my family. I don't know if it's possible, but would Madam Baxter be able to go to page 15 on those plans that we just reviewed? Hi. Can you guys hear me? Sorry. Sorry. We have someone speaking already, Laura. If you could wait. Of course. Okay, thank you very much. So I'm just going to try to keep this brief impossible, because I know that there's something I want to talk about comments. So if we're looking at this now, our property is on the floor. We're on the right side. And as you can see right now, our units are losing about 70% of our sunlight due to this rather large wall being built three feet off of our property. We only have windows, a few windows in the back, a few windows in the front, not on the other side, because it's a split six, and that's where the firewall is. So we're going to have a couple of windows that are on the other side. And that's where the firewall is. So all of our sunlight comes in through the windows on the west side, which is right next to 847. So hopefully that will be taken into consideration. Obviously, we feel that there's a quality of life. Quality of life issue there. I'd also like to bring up that in 2020, the proponent brought forth, it was a different set of plans, but in 2020 they brought forth a set of plans for a full unit condominium complex. And their violations were Article 68, Section 29, Article 29, Section 4, which are the exact same violations they have now. The board in 2020 denied their permits in 2020. Due to the fact that they did not meet all of the conditions that are required for the board to issue a conditional permit. I'm not obviously going to go through all the conditions, I'm just going to board all the components that are the conditions are. I'm sorry. Please wrap up. We have other issues. Yeah, I'm sorry. I'm just trying to do as quickly as possible. It also is some concerns about the parking. I'm not quite sure how those cars can kind of maneuver in the back. It's seen a little complex and dysfunctional. And then my other question is, which I'm a little confused about. It seems that according to the assessor's office, and I checked this recently this morning, the two parcels are actually owned by two different parties. There's one that's owned by 847 East Fist Street, LLC. And then the parcel that's closest to us is owned by Mary and Peter Walsh. So it's the parcels. I understand there are one lot, but the parcels themselves are listed under two different ownership parties, according to the assessors. Thank you. Thank you. Councillor Murphy. Hi. Thank you. I want to go on the record of opposing this project. And I know it's passed, but there was the one from earlier that we spoke incorrectly. 144 Wester Street. There was miscommunication from my office, and I did run a... If I could switch the record to be opposing it, I know it's passed. I'm not sure if you can change my vote on that, even though it has gone through the process of being voted in pass. But I wanted to hop on and say that in person, please. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate that. Councillor Fence of office. Hi. I'm sorry about that. I had a call. I was trying to be clinical, and I ended up closing the Zoom. I'm sorry about that. Good morning, Madam Chair, as a member of the board. I will read the letter of opposition from Consulate. Dear members of the Sonny Board of Appeal, I'm writing in a position of the proposed project, A47 Eastfield Street, which proposes to combine two parcels into one, to change the occupancy from two to a five-family structure, with a new construction of an addition on the left side and the rear of the building, which includes new parking spaces at the rear. My office has received an overwhelming opposition with 64 letters from neighbors, as well as opposition from the city point neighborhood association. Due to concerns on density, traffic, blocking of sunlight, reduction of outdoor space, and other negative impacts on quality of flats. Neighbors have expressed their opposition based on the size of this project and how this proposed building will be disrupted to A-bottles. This building will be blocking sunlight and impacts an air flow. And it will cause a decrease in open space for families and children who currently have backyards, backyards, filled with sunlight to play in. More over and evens are concerned that the parking configuration will make a different difficult for cars to maneuver into parking spaces. There's currently not turning radius for parked cars. Meaning, cars will be backing out while others might be driving in at the same time, making it unsafe for pedestrians and children playing next door. There are also five parking spots facing that red leaves on A-bottles jar, and it will make it unsafe for the children and pets to play with the cars entering and exiting. This is the second time that the proponent has come before CVA for this site and he was denied without prejudice last time. Many fellow, this proposed a lack of consideration for neighborhood characteristics or for quality of lives or his neighbors. There are serious and legitimate concerns with this project that have been expressed by the A-bottles and neighbors have voiced a strong opposition to this project. I hope that the CVA will take the concerns of my neighbors and I seriously am demised on a relief for this project. If you have any questions, please always take to reshaut to me at that flinabottles jar gov. 617-635-203. Thank you guys. Madam Chair, I have three additional raise hands. Okay, please proceed. And please be brief and bring new information. Marathon better on mute you. Hello, thank you from hearing from me today. My name is Monica Santos and I am also a director of butter to this property residing at 845 East 5th Street in South Boston. I represent myself as well as all director of butter's at 845 East 5th Street in opposition to this project for all of the comments already stated. The negative impact on our quality of life as a butter's I do think it's important to note that the existing home on the property that is grandfather in does have no side yard set back. So adding this addition on top of the existing home is even more imposing to us as a butter's at 845 East 5th Street. A shadow study was also conducted. It appears the developers and their attorney did not submit the shadow study or we did not get a chance to review it. But the shadow study does show the significant impact on our quality of life in terms of the loss of life in airflow, which will of course be an additional financial hardship for us in terms of increased electrical and heating costs, as well as just the general quality of life implications with our sunlight, air flow, and views all being significantly impacted. As was also just briefly mentioned, there are significant concerns about the parking configuration. Those seven spots do not appear to have a turning radius. So those spots, those parkers will have to be pulling out of a long driveway backwards. And again, there's five parking spots that are facing directly into our yard at 845 East 5th Street, where again, we have young children and pets playing every single day. And one other point I would just add particularly for us on the 845 side. So we have literally been living between two construction zones for years now. 843 East 5th Street has also been undergoing construction for years. We've been living between this property. I just didn't focus on this enough, but I know we have other race stands. And then this property 847 was got renovated a few years ago, and then of course, that we potentially this renovation happening as well. And then my final point and my discussions with this EPA, they have 84 letters of opposition on file. And as I already mentioned, the city point neighborhood association, these plans were presented there as well. And that was also unanimously opposed with over 20 members in attendance as well. So we would respectfully ask that the board denies these plans today and allows us to continue to work with the developers on a more suitable situation for all parties involved. Thank you. I don't need to continue. You said the Urgimari's hands, please. Please do. I think you're opposition or support. Thank you. Thank you. Great. Thank you, Madam Chair and members of the board. I'm a direct butter. Also at 845 East 5th Street, I appreciate the time. And we'll certainly keep this brief. I would just express my opposition and agree with everything that Monica and Brian have stated previously. My wife and I, Mary Lee, live next door to this development with our young son and have significant concerns for all the reasons stated, particularly around the parking issues. The violations, the open space. So we stand opposed as well. I appreciate the time. Thank you. We're wearing a gun on the. Thank you. Can you hear me? Yes, ma'am. We're wearing a car. Listen to the city point neighborhood association. They did come before the association and it was voted to oppose. The membership has many concerns of which you've heard already today. So to get straight to the point, absolute opposition. We ask that you do not grant the conditional use permits. And we also ask that you do not approve with BPD a design review because we all know that they cannot shave off time square footage. It's like putting a square into a round pay grade now in so far as the space. There, please do take a look at the parking and at this point we oppose it for a quality of life issues. And we see no reason to impede the neighborhood based on pure profit luxury condos. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Any other questions from the board? I do have some questions and I'm not sure of maybe the the lower can answer. All the many of the abundant properties are kind of these triple decker technologies and it seems like there's no parking on the property. What are these residents park? I'm sorry, we've done the bottom residents and where they are. The button residents. So we heard from a 45. I don't, you know, I don't see Austrian parking. We have a property a 51 in 53. They are multifamily. Very similar. A lot of dimensions. Where do they park? There's no parking on the lot. Well, I can only assume that there may be that street parking, but that's why we were very mindful that actually we wanted them. We didn't want to add to that, which is why we designed this for seven off street parking spaces. Okay. Thank you. I just wanted to make sure that I was understanding correctly that a lot of the triple deckers on this site, a budget property does not have on site parking. So thanks for that clarification. Any other questions from the board? Madam Chair, I have a question for the applicant. So I'm looking at the basement plan and the trash room and by room are, you know, all in the space. However, it looks like they're only accessible by stairs. Can you confirm that and can you take me through how trash would work on this site? You know, for these five units will be private pickup or they expected to take out the bins. Are you ready to take out the things that the stairs or don't, but they would need to use the stairs to do that. Yes, one of these ones. Okay. Thank you. I also want to echo Ms. Bedar-Braz's concerns about the parking and just add, you know, that parking in the back is pretty narrow at seven and a half feet with the column. I do have concerns about that. I'm saying that parking space was in six by 20, but what happens then can you come back to, you know, seven, six by eight through? We did, we did some public time. We did the sessions with Paul and you told, who really didn't seem to have an issue with it. Obviously, you know, the proof is more than you have to work for as a broad group to make sure that everything is satisfied. And also, just to mention, and it's recommendation of approval, the BPDA did focus. It's a designer view to really closely look at parking as well. Okay. Any other questions from the board? Yeah, I have one small question. As far as the parking bowls, all the cars will have to back out, right? So the highest space behind is about 29 foot seven and the ride is about 20 feet from the 23 feet behind. 20 feet is the minimum required. So we do, we do it see that slightly. But no, we didn't have to do a three point turn. It was in driving and then we did a three point turn to get out. Okay. Thank you. If there are no further questions, we have a motion. Madam Chair, I like to make a motion. I don't have an issue with the density in terms of five units. I think there are typologies in here that allows that type of density. I think what's not in character with the neighborhood is the actual massing of the proposal. So I'm going to put a four emotion of denial without prejudice. And again, we also heard a lot of community out musician for the project. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. As we roll. Yes, I think this means a little more work. I'd like to see less parking and more open space and just improved operations of the site, especially on that trash area. Mr. Langham. Yes. Mr. Berraza. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Charles of Woods. Yes. Motion carries. Thank you. Next we have a zero eight one five four nine seven two eight. If you have a list of eight gene street. Is the applicant and the representative of this president will explain to them both. Longer than make your panelists. Hello. Can you hear us? Yes, ma'am. Okay. Great. Thank you. Our names, Laura. We live at 88G Street Unit 3. Madam Chair, members of the board. Thank you for meeting with us to discuss our proposal to expand our existing roof deck on our top rubber roof. We've lived at 88G Street Unit 3 for almost 12 years. We adore our neighbors in the neighborhood and we do our best to keep it safe, family and beautiful. We take pride in caring for the flower beds by the trees. On G Street, we play and clean up days of our neighbors and alternate hosting many group barbecues. We've never held large parties or played loud music. Both my husband, Cliff and I work from home and we try to enjoy our deck for about 10 months of the year. We can. We grow many containers of herbs, vegetables and flowers that we set up our offices outside in the sun. This proposed increase with greatly enhanced or living and working spaces. We have proposed to expand our existing 14 by 18 square roof deck to 18 by 20 square feet, expanding our space roughly 100 square feet. This proposal only increases on two sides of our existing space, so allowing for ample safety spaces on all edges. Our proposed expansion will not be noticeable to anyone from the street level and will be no longer than the existing roof deck next door. For the butter's meeting, we invested much time in passing out hundreds of leaflets, meeting individually and talking to both directed others and community neighbors. Everyone was very open, inquisitive and positive. We understand we have several letters of support with no written letters of opposition, something we take very seriously and not lightly and are very grateful for. We're here to answer any questions you might have and our contractor is waiting by the phone to answer any questions we cannot answer ourselves. Thank you so much for your consideration. Thank you, ma'am. Questions from the board. Hearing none, may I call the testimony? Hello, Madam Chair and members of the board, Lydia Plasky with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. In a butter's meeting was hosted for 88G Street on February 1, 2024. Our office received nine letters of support on behalf of 12 individuals, the majority of which are directed butters. We have received no letters of opposition. A butter's to support this proposal mentioned that the walkins are exemplary neighbors who have fallen to their property that the neighborhood appreciates. The personal outreach by proponents to share plans and answer questions was appreciated. Lastly, letters of support note the affirmation that the roofed X-Face will be used as an outdoor living space and support the enhancement for the enjoyment of the proponents. At this time, our office is unaware of any additional concerns with this application. We would like to refer to the judgment of the board at this time. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning, Madam Chair and members of the board. Our Councilor Flynn's office, Councilor Flynn would like to go and record an opposition due to his consistent and non-standing policy against the roofed exit and expansions. His policy follows years of complaints for neighbors, our seniors, persons with disabilities and young families about quality of life issues. He is emanating for roofed X in the form of loud parties, disturbances at all hours and trashable issues. More over additional roofed X-Face and expansions do not contribute to an easy, to easy the cities of affordable housing crisis. And it is difficult to understand a hardship that requires some relief. Thank you. Thank you. I don't see any additional questions left, Madam Chair. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Hearing none, Madam, a motion. I make a motion for a proper law. Madam, a second. Back in. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Lutzia. Yes. It's really well. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes, ma'am. Better Paraza. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Chair, also votes yes. The motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Next, we have case of POA. I'm giving Madam Chair for the House. To the 11 o'clock. The 11 o'clock room. With that, Madam Chair, together with the last one, since we're past the 11 o'clock power, we'll ask that there are any request for the jowls or the drills from the 11 o'clock. Hearing none, Madam Chair, we'll return to case POA 154, Q4, 08. We'll be adding us to the 27th, 29th, countable street. With the applicant handle, they're represented in this present. There's plenty case of the board. Good morning, members of the board. My name is Evan Smith. I am owner of 27, 29th, and a watch street. I was first like the start. I've said I had a member meeting to the public meeting for the party. This project was very much designed with staying consistent with one of our ingredients. The block that was founded by W. Penoir. And a bunch of pensioners from P.J. who's performing with that type of injury. As you can see, this is a corner lock where W. Penoir Street's career was short. It was an epitome of an option. The block just over 2000 square feet. The building that was reprimanded. The body is not occupied at this time. I am proposing to develop the empty lock corner. It's like this. As part of this development, we'll be convened back this later. I am proposing to work with positive education. And we work with the intersection of the left. Right now, the intersection is a sewer vast hall with no cross blocks. No seating area, no breeder. I am proposing to add that in as part of project at community benefit. And I'm proposing to general good support for the community for that part of project. That's why. This is the first level. This is actually more or less a sub-level with the road road. I'm trying to add some storage for units along with the community space. We use that into units. We use the site. So on this one point, I'm proposing nine units total of three stories. Listening to what the community organization has asked for over the years. It's been a strong push for a range of affordability in terms of size and your ecology. We're looking for a place point as well as. Still so this. Four point is one better units. Two better units and three better units. So on these work, we have one one bag, one two bad. One three. Use us a range of facing and a range of entry points to this unit. As you can also see in keeping with 90% of buildings on this block, it has a zero point set back along the sidewalk on both sides. If we were to look further down the street, the rest of the street is only by print count houses that are road houses, three story with a half level below that. That directly to sidewalk and so forth. So this building maintains that at the same time. Outside. That's one of the same layout. It's fine. That's one of the same well. There is a half story and a group that have to feed to it. The golf here, if you provide one to measuring space for the upper units, to make the image slightly larger and also includes the cable spaces so that they are not exposed on the roof. The private roof that the scene is going to be removed from this plan based on community input on the community meeting. So that kind of a red dot will not be a sign. So through one slide. So this is the thing that we're building. We still have a process ongoing with the final architectural petriation district, which will continue by input on the design of the sides. And the design overview as well. So we're expecting to continue to work on the besides in conjunction with my model and we have. That's what. Then you. It's a building. It's a voluntary. The spirit will be built to pass out standards in keeping with sustainability goals and Boston. And there will also involve more than 50% minority contractors in keeping with community guidelines. There are I will last to say there are I think that's it for my presentation. I will ask to say there has been some fairly vocal opposition by one or two of the direct partners related to unit count. There's been a standard conversation regarding whether this should be more or less units. I have brought the larger unit count. The opposition is not seem to be to the massing of the property so much of the self. And as other as I mentioned, the previous presentations. We combine this. One or two minutes at our face points, which seems to be well advanced. Overall, of course, by community trying to reduce face points of weight, kind of entry points for central homeowners. So while this could have to be this I have gone towards that. And I will bring you to the next. So you have to have those by the watch. But that I'll end over. Thank you. Questions from the board. Yeah, I'm sure Mr. Smith, during your presentation, you mentioned that the community has been asking for affordability. Are there any of the units affordable or how do you measure affordability here? This is a so we market rate project. I'm doing the economics of both going costs and the cost for the site itself. A affordability, I think, is more than just whether it's being affordable or not. It's what the total step of price is for the unit. So it means work to be, you know, three, three bedroom family units. Probably start somewhere between $800,000 and $1,000 based on the market conditions. By offering one and two bedroom units were able to offer units of start in $400,000 to $500,000 range. Which I think for those people that make too much money to afford a normal unit, but too little to pay $1,000,000 for a three bedroom unit. This provides a home ownership opportunity that partners does not exist. And there's one note in this, all the funders I have noticed in my case, your action. Okay, thank you. You're so clarified that the BPDDA has clear guidelines. The guidelines are not what is affordable or not. So this is not affordable, this is market rate. No, no, it's not BPD affordable, but we're trying to reach a place point. It's called a place point that is lower than some other available market rate units in the neighborhood. Okay, thank you. Ms. Bearbrother, did you have a question? No, it's the same question that you already had. It was answered. Thank you. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Hearing none, may I call the testimony? Good evening, Madam Chair and members of the board. I'll show the maintenance office of the neighborhood services. 27 to 28 kind of words has committed to the deposits through our office. We did an about us reading this effort, 19 and that we've only presented before the Highland Park neighborhood collision on March 12th. Highland Park neighborhood collision, important against its development. We need about us, we're also a persons development. The units are too small. We're not looking for affordable units and residents stated that the owners' plans are not well put out when it comes to get clear answers. Our office would like to defer to the board at this time. Thank you. Thank you. Jawan. Jawan's scheme, do you look at a testimony here? Yes, good evening, Madam Chair and members of the board. My name is Jawan Steins. I am a lifelong resident at 44 Corbett Street in Dorchester. But I am also a lifelong member of Christenville Church of Personal Experience, which abuts the property. I am currently opposed to this project and would like to seek a deferral from more community input at this time. Our church was not notified about any meetings related to a butters meetings for us to give input for what this project could be. So I would just have to ask for deferral at this time. Thank you. Are you good? Yes. This is a testimony I'm calling. I'm actually using my CFO zoom in my church. I just wanted to know, yes, can you hear me? Yes. I just wanted to say, yes, this testimony is calling from my own, but only to the church. I'm utilizing actually my CFO zoom module on June of the page. She's my assistant pastor as well. But again, our church was not notified about any meetings, community meetings or anything else as well. We actually are close to the project as well. We're actually on the corner of Lambert and Bartlett, which is right around the corner from... ...Generate Street. And we actually have a path from our church that goes from behind our church that goes actually out to Kenore Street. We're wondering in regards to that project that we're dealing with across the street on Washington, the Barthian Yard project, which of course is in full swing. And there have been some things there that have taken place that have caused some disruption, but that's getting into our parking spaces so forth in our church. So I'm just wondering, is there going to be any more community response or any more community involvement in regards to maybe notification about how this project is going to work? Thank you. Thank you. Hi, can everyone hear me? Yes, sir. We're in here on behalf of the owner of 51 Deadly Street, the Director of Butter, named Leroy Alexander. Leroy recently purchased this property. And Evan was able to meet with him a few weeks ago to fully discuss the plans. He was very honest in his experience with the neighborhood just as he was during his presentation. The owner of 51 Deadly Street, which is the Director of Butter, is in complete support of this project. Thank you. And then there's a caller on... 617-212, writing a center request on you. You're looking to give testimony here. You can press start. Oh, yep, there you go. Are you looking to give testimony here? I am. Can you say two words? My name is Frank Red, R-E-D-D, to the record I live at 21, Channel Earth Street Rocks Famine Director Butter. We have had several, several, several meetings with Mrs. Smith. And all of them, he says he's going to come back for changes. And he does it. And he should meet his colleagues. He's up prepared. One of the things we were concerned about is when he was with Mr. DuVard, or the Hiss Parkman, they agreed to cut the units to eight units. Mr. DuVard transferred from him and he made his story. So I thought Mr. Smith was going to do it for us, well. And he keeps saying he was, you know, he doesn't say yes or no. He's going to get back to us. And he hasn't gotten back to his chest. But he's been moving forward with this plan, although he keeps trying to work with him. He's not been upfront about working with us. Secondly, we're not concerned about the price plan because it's market anyway. So that's a good point with us. But we are concerned with some of it. And so the price, the line is too small for that many units. And you're thinking that the city's going to come in and help him with those plans. But that doesn't seem likely because almost of the things that he's presenting are just open. It's open and there's nothing from it. So I am totally against this project. Thank you. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Can the applicant just speak to the the community process again? It seems like some folks were communicating with some of this. We've not been so just to clarify before we proceed. I'd like to describe by at least seven community meetings with both the butter's, Highland Park, New York College and the John Allen Square New York University Association. I've been very clear on my intent to build nine units on this for quite a while. We have conversations regarding what it would work like to do, the smaller number of units. And again, it's come down to the price point conversation. So just saying that I have not responded to any comments. There's this in January. And the butter may not like my response. But I'm pretty strongly about trying to provide more of those opportunities that have lower overall price points as per to just building very large units which already you people can afford. I feel pretty strongly about that. And that may not be what the director of the program might be hearing, but we have different opinions. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Can we get either ONS to respond or how many in opposition or in favor, do we have on file that can just be re-arrain it? Mr. Newman or is someone else? So for some reason, I didn't get actual opposition. It was only through the address meeting. I don't have the actual email accounts, but there hasn't been anybody that is signing with the Spadgett at all. Everybody is against it. And say it again, here we repeat the last. So I'll enjoy the immediate abundance that I've talked to and the neighborhood association. There are all of those of the Spadgett, but I don't have an actual account. I do think it just add that the Highland Park neighborhood coalition was split role. It was roughly 40% supporting 60% votes. It was not the unanimous opposition. And no one on the direct vote was in the Davis opposition. I agree with that. You know, those opposed to have modern voices in many of these meetings. So. Yes. I mean, this project is, I mean, this is just comment. This project is in New Guinea Square. You know, if one was to provide affordable housing, there is a way that we can ensure that some of the units will be sold at the affordable MI price point that's been set. But what the concerns I have is because it's nine units. You don't have that kind of criteria imposed. So what is to say that the project becomes more expensive and you need to sell these units at a much more luxury price? So, you know, that's just some, some of what I'm thinking about in terms of the neighborhood and the development that has been ongoing in New New Square. Just, just some comments. Any other questions from the board? Okay. Hearing none. Is there a motion? I like to put forward a motion to defer just to allow for a little bit more community process to ensure that the church that is right next to it that there's a little bit more conversation. That's the motion that I prefer. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Oh, yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Yes, we will. Yes. Mr. Lang. Yes. Mr. Berraza. Mr. Collins. Yes. Chair votes, yes. Motion carries. Where's the project? Oh, the project. Go ahead, Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. St yourself. Mr. St shirt. Mr hé. Mr Lenford. Mr. Delta. Mr. Ana synergy. Mr. Gonzales. Mr. Conservatory. Mrs. случае La Grande. Mr. Wardne is a $2, Goblin Tey Judge in international project tomorrow. Mr. Rumona. Mr. Jim Z call it, adjudication, Mr. Frantz. anybody? Just take that taken care. Mr. Priewechsel. Mr. Washington is here. 3.95, so we'll go out into the out-of-cantoon group to represent the spread of their splints and boards. Madam Chair, I need to recuse myself. I need two projects. Thank you. So, how do you? Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board, the Attorney Medical with Pletcher Tilton, with the business address of 100 Franklin Street. With me this morning, our Duane voice and Adler Bernadine from the Public Design and Construction, Elise Cilius from Studio Loose Architects and Antonio Lee from the Mayor's Office of Housing. I'm here before you this morning for two companion cases, as written to the record, both of which are part of the Blue Hill Avenue Action Plan. The project includes developing two vacant lots and two mixed-use buildings, one in 353-359 Blue Hill Ab and one in 391-395 Blue Hill Ab. It sits on the corner of Blue Hill Ab and Intermell Street. We're seeking to erect a new three story building with five affordable home ownership units and one retail space. The zoning district is an MFR district and the lot size is just under 4,000 square feet and 3,886 square feet. The building will include a retail space and one residential unit on the ground level and two residential units on both floors two and three. Overall, the project includes three two better units and two three better units. Moving down the street about a block on 391-395 Blue Hill Ab is located on the corner of Blue Hill and Brunswick Street. We're proposing to combine two existing vacant lots to create a 3,362 square foot lot and erect a new mixed-use four-story building with ten affordable home ownership units and one ground floor retail space. This zoning district is actually an MFR LS and as mentioned the lot size as proposed would be 3,362 square feet. The layout of this building would include the retail space and one residential unit on the ground floor and three residential units on floors two, three and four. The project overall includes ten one better units. Both buildings will include a group two unit, a century unit, and a half solar-ready roofs. Both proposals are seeking similar relief for lot size, additional lot size, per-additional dwelling unit, floor area ratio, open space, dimensional relief from front-side and rail yards, and parking and traffic visibility. The two different violations for each one, 391-395, Blue Hill is seeking relief for height in terms of feet. We're proposing 52 feet where 45 is with the four stories that's permitted in this district. And 353-359, Blue Hill out is seeking a conditional use permit to allow for the proposed ground floor retail space. All these violations are aligned with many of the surrounding buildings and are aligned with the goals of the Blue Hill Avenue action plan as a whole. They did go through a full community process meeting multiple times with directive butters as well as the Interville Normandy Residence Association. I'm going to update the proposal as recently as last Thursday. With that, I'll happily pause and take any questions. Board may have. Thank you. Questions from the board. Is there anyone from the other chair tonight? I'm sorry. I do have a question. So I see for the 353-3 project you are flagged for height and height and height. So what I'm going to do is I'm going to do a couple of questions. The last question I have to do is do stories. Was that. Do you still need that or was that a result of our revision? It didn't seem like you needed that relief. I apologize. I'm actually not seeing that on my refusal letter. I'm not sure was that in the advertisement. I'm not sure. Is that in the advertisement? Yeah, height excessive. The allowed height in this district is four stories, 45 feet. And we're proposing a three story building at 43 feet, six inches for 353 blue. Oh, look. Go out, excuse me, so. I imagine that might be an oversight. And I'll add that the original plans that were submitted. There was a high variance requested, requested but we have since revised our plans to go down to a lower high after 53 blue love so we will no longer need to hire variants. And then in the 391 project is there an elevator in there or is that not necessary? An elevator is not currently necessary at that site. Thank you. Yep. Thank you. We have a question, ma'am, share. What is the elevator in the middle of the condolence? So there will be a slip between 80% AMI and 100% AMI. So 353 is proposing the five units. We are proposing 3 at 80% AMI and 2 at 100% AMI. And then at 391-395 that will be an even slip between 5 and 5. Okay, thank you. Thank you. All right. Would that be a public testimony? Just for one. Yep, I see two reasons I wanted to give the opportunity for Owens to jump in there on. If not, I'll take it to that. Go ahead. Yeah, go ahead. Go ahead. The board, sorry, this is the M.O.H. project. They just go through the community process. They met with I know for 353, even just that would just sorry. 353-359, rural life, there was a conditional support. There has been a tree that has been affected in the neighbor. So there's a tree that's impacting the house and the driveway with the house next door. And so I know the community has been having a concert about that. But I'll go forward to the board. Mike Kosew. My name is Michael Kosew, co-director of Project Rights 320A, Blue Avenue. We had several meetings regarding 353-359, Blue Avenue with the developer and with the city. While we made disagree a little bit with the city on their concept along the stretch of Blue Avenue. The next, these two blogs that these projects are on are highly impactful in terms of public safety. We've worked with the developer. We want to continue to work with the developer on 353-359, Blue Avenue as we go forward. They tried to make the design more reflective of the many two family houses on that block of Interville. They made some different changes. They scaled down the building. And we want to continue to work forward on this process. And so we have a lot of different projects that we want to continue to work with. We have a lot of different projects that we want to continue to work with. We have a lot of different projects that we want to continue to work with. We have a lot of different projects that we want to continue to work with. We have a lot of different projects that we want to continue to work with. We have a lot of different projects that we want to continue to work with. We have a lot of different projects that we want to continue to work with. They have a lot of different projects that we want to continue to work with. It's an international project talking about development and development of the developer. They have an chills in the Conservatory. They have an international project thinking of public safety. communication that we want to create. So the interview got to you. So, a lot of different labs. So, a lot of different labs. Call the Director. Call the Director. Call the Director. Come over to her forum. Call articulate. All right. Thank you, Mike. I hope so, I'm sorry Antonio, M-O-H. Sending out requests, I'm meeting you, go ahead. Yes, good morning, Madam Chair, and members of the board. My name is Antonio Lach, I am a senior housing development officer with the Mayor's Office of Housing. This project, as mentioned, is an M-O-H land disposition project that has partners LLC will develop in the Roxbury neighborhood. This project has gone through an extensive community process and has the full support and an image. Thank you. And have no additional instance. Okay, without me, I have motion. Madam Chair, I make a motion. I think this is a good project. I really appreciate the creation of a for the more than several opportunities as well. And I make a motion of approval with the DEA review, especially attention to improving the open and service space for more projects. Great, thank you, Madam Second. I can't stop it. Mr. Stembridge. Yeah. Mr. Melatzea. Yes. This we will. Yes. Mr. Langen. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Chair votes, yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you, Madam Chair, members of the board. As we have passed the 1130 hour of the past, if there are any of those questions, we'll withdraw the scroll at this point. Mr. Stembridge, I am on 169th, Madam Chair. That moving forward case, be it away. 147, 5953. We'll see you through F's all 169th, Madam Road Street. We can go ahead and explain further. Yes. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. Mr. Glenn's 245th, Summarshroom's Boston, on behalf of the petitioner, requesting withdrawal of that case. Really? No. May I have motion? And what's the approval of the withdrawal? Second. That's it. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. As we roll? Yes. Mr. Langham? Yes. Mr. Brasov? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Chair votes, yes. Motion carries. Thank you. Here we know the road we're driving to the 1150 hour case, be it away, 156, 7,009, with the address of 13 hour in the Amnesty Street, would be applicant in, though, the representative's point, is putting the case on board for it? Yes, Mr. Stembridge. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board, Attorney Derek Small. I have a business address of the warm dogs in road. Today, and with me today is Miss Alice Gomes, and Mr. McGell, my teller, who the owner's of the property, we're here today seeking relief to the Eglocke-princy of the building from a one family dwelling, two or three family dwelling. The zoning sub-district here is a 3,000, 4,000, and our log size is approximately 2600 square feet. The violations are as follow, rear yard and sufficient, requirement is 30 feet, we have 19 feet. Lot area insufficient, I'm just explaining that. Lot with lost frontage, we're requirement is 45 feet, we have 36 and a half feet. With regard to the FAR, the required FAR is 0.8, and we're proposing 1.4. Madam Chair, or Madam Ambassador, if we can start at the third level, we'll explain the plans going down, starting at level three. Unit three on the third floor, will consist of one bedroom, one bath, and is approximately 615 square feet. Unit two coming down is one bedroom, one bath, and consists of about 652 square feet. Level one will consist of the first floor in the garden level, and we'll have three beds, two baths, and it's approximately 1,350 square feet. If you go back to the picture, Madam Chair of the property, you can see that it's a typical brownstone that you find in the south end, or many other neighborhoods in the city of Boston. We have a curb cut and parking, sufficient parking on the right-hand side of that picture. And again, the top level will be one bedroom unit, the second level will be another one bedroom unit, and then the garden level in the first floor show will consist of the third level, the third unit with three bedrooms and two baths. We can stop there, Madam Chair, and have any questions that the board may have. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Okay, hearing none. Okay. Sorry, if you can please confirm that you are proposing to find your parking. No, no from the out parking. If you look at the lines, okay. The drawing might be a mistake, but if you look at the pictures shown, we have a driveway to the right of the property, and it goes all the way back left of the yard, so there will be no cars parking in the front of the building. Okay, great, thank you. Any other questions from the board? Okay, hearing none, may I have public testimony? Hello, Madam Chair and members of the board, Officer of the Mayor's Office of the Neighborhood Services. The Chair and Alexander has completed a process through our office. We did an upvotes meeting 1120, and the proponent presented before the SDC DSNI on January 25th. There was no opposition for this development. People like to find that this project is, sorry. This project initiated an internship on a long time homeowner, and their goal is to provide a space for their family. SDC members suggested the creation of a big mural on the side of the building, and the homeowner is actually like the idea, and so our office related to the board at this time. Thank you. Okay, and Madam Chair, I have no waste hands at the moment. Thanks. Okay, any other questions from the board? Hearing none, may I have a motion? Motion to approve. Is there a second? Second. Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yeah. Mr. Valencia. Yes. As we will. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Mr. Berraza. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Chair votes, yes. Motion carries. Yes. Thank you, Madam Chair. Members of the board, I would like to thank you. Next, we have case B, 155, 4601, the address of 62 North Beacon Street. If the applicant and the resident of the department were to explain to the board, so hi, everyone. Quite John America here. I am with hierarchy architects. And here we are representing the owner on this project. I don't know. So, it's a historic plan that we are not making any changes to the outside. We get just to the architectural. Yeah. So this project is a pretty simple project. It's an existing single family and the Austin neighborhood of Boston. It is a, it is kind of a historic looking building. We don't think it's an register of a beautiful building. That's a lot of the neighbors have fun. Yes, for I think I think I just averaged the owner was in front of the board where they were proposing to turn the single family into a four unit building where they will have a living unit in the basement. I think while the neighbors supporting that move, I think the board was reluctant to approve adding a unit into the basement. So the owner had hired me. I'm the second architect involved in this project. I hired me to reduce the scope. And what now I'm proposing is to just turn the building into a three family building. And one of the things we heard from past community meetings with the neighbors was the need to keep the building looking the way it is. And the previous very soon there were additions being added to the front that were really messing with the character of the building. And I think one of the things that we were trying to keep the building looking the way it is and trying to keep other work inside the building. So if you can move to the next page, and this is just a... You can just move to the next one. This is just a service on an analysis. This is a floor from the way it is. And this is where the work is happening. So what we are proposing right now is to turn each floor into two bedroom units. On the first floor, it'll be two bedrooms. One and half bath, same thing on the second floor. They both will be around a thousand square feet. And when we get to the third floor, it's a little smaller. So we're proposing two bedrooms, one bath. The only work we do on the outside of the building is that there's an exterior deck where we are repairing and adding some stairs from communicating those decks from the stand for all the way down to Brown as a second meter big rest. Although a second meter of big rest is now required because the building will be sprinkled for a three-family. The owner of the building will be nice to add that as a feature as an extra level of protection for the users. So we are adding that. But basically, the building would look exactly the same way it looks right now. If you drive by it or work around it, it will not look any different. The only thing we are doing is kind of changing the interior floor. One is to turn it into three unit buildings. Thank you. Other questions from the board? Hearing none may have public testimony. Any raise hands? Any raise hands, Jessica? Are you with us? Sorry. I apologize. We'll start with you then. Madam Chair, members of the board, a partner with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This time, the Mayor's Office will defer to the judgment of this board. Our office hosts in the butter's meeting. There were no butter's in attendance. The applicant then went on to meet with the Austin Civic Association. They were in support of this proposal. And that several times with the Brighton Austin Improvement Association welcome we ended up supporting as well. I will defer to the board at this time. Thank you. Okay. Eva, the next one. Good morning, Madam Chair. We're going to the board. Tell me to the door representing the Austin Civic Association. We'd like to go and work in support. Thank you. I believe Eva put her hand down so we have no. Oh, yeah, no raise hands. Thank you. Was that May I have a motion? It was no proof. May I have a second? That can. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Valencia. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Okay. Thank you. Ms. Wheelow. Yes. Mr. Wingham. Yes. It's better browser. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Thank you so very much, everyone. Thank you very much for everybody. Thank you. We'll now move on to the hearing schedule for 11 a.m. We have case BOA 156 559 Foss. The annual hospital. Well, Geneva Street. It's the out here to end or the rubber. Is that a new subordinate? There's point point. Yes. Mr. Stembridge. Good morning again. Madam Chair, members of the board. Richard Lins on behalf of the petitioner. The business address of 245 Summars Street in East Boston. If we can jump to page. I should have provided it. It should be a slide deck that was included. We can start on this one, but I did have a deck that I submitted to the board. With some photos and rendering to the project as well. So it's possible to see if you can bring that up. If you can do it. Mr. Lins is referring to. If not, can you, I don't know what you can do, Mr. Lins? Yes. Does it do service to the project? That's okay. We can try to. They're looking for them now. So we can start speaking. Yeah. So we jump to the next slide. I can start. You saw the site plan. We'll do talk a little bit about that. So now, Madam Chair, members of the board. This is a proposal to convert an existing big and wide into a new multi-family four-story residential building. It's located in the edge of the Jeffries Point neighborhood, which in your photo is the most street neighborhood. And the reason the photos were important was to show you the current conditions of Geneva street. The board may recall a number of projects recently having that approved. This is a little bit of an imperfect. Here we go. If you can jump down. I'm going to slide five. We'll give us a place to start. Thank you. So this is an area that is somewhat formally industrial. They get site, which is now a vacant area, which is now been become pretty popular with new development. Geneva street is a private way. But with the development that is happening along that street, there are a number of improvements that are being proposed, especially in connection with our early sized projects that are being either constructed or to review now. If you can screw down to the next maybe six or seven slide. So we're going to have a couple of different things to do. Yeah, probably. Yeah, I hope for the rent. Getting it out of the street. Yeah, so you probably just slide a second. So yeah, perfect. So looking directly across the street, the site now chair is an auto repair facility. As you can see, the cars and all the parts here generally associated with that use. There are a number of cars that actually use this site for parking. Apricosal, obviously, would make the same more compatible use with the changing scope of Geneva street, including a multi-family travel. Think of it as slide 10, please. With us, we have a trailer ran from Joy Street design, but I'll run through this quickly because I know the board's a little bit behind. What we're showing here is the four unit residential with a living space on both on the ground as well as the three levels above. There was a private roof deck for units for which we have a level unit. One of the things I won't point out to the board is that under the planning spots and zoning amendments for the neighborhood. A four-story building will be considered as a right height for this neighborhood. Multi-family use is already allowed. Multi-family use is being proposed and that will be allowed under new zoning as well. What we try to come up with is something that's a little bit more contextual with the new buildings that are being proposed or have been recently built. We are proposing no parking for the site, but I would point out this is a very close walking distance to both airport T station as well as nav or T station. I would also point out under the current zoning. We are required to seek relief under the provisions of Article 53 that do not comply with the current MFR district. However, the recommendations for new zoning for this area actually reduce some of those non-conformities specifically related to the Florida area ratio. There is no longer going to be a final for maximum FAR. The limitations of the planning spots that really have to do with setback, lock coverage and permeability. We don't think that we work with the architects to ensure that the layout of this building would not exceed 60% lock coverage, which we are at. We have 40% of our area which is considered uncovered space under the recommended zoning amendments, which is easily 30% of that can be permeable, which are all being compliance. This is also subject to G cut. We have no arm and our approval with respect to that. We can jump down to the next slide please. Let's go two more slides to the site plan. One more please. What we are showing here is our setbacks. We are setting our building back at three feet from each property line. As you can see, it is pretty consistent with the adjoining properties both left and right. They are set back at about three feet. Our building does go back slightly further than the building next to us. It would point out that this is a shallow lock condition, which is recognized that Article 53 is being for which we are allowed to actually reduce what the setback requirement would be in the way. Under new zoning, the setback requirement would be 16.6 feet. Our building itself is 17.1 feet. However, we do propose decks off of the rear of the building. We understand that the new zoning amendments actually recognize that decks don't always count as part of the setback. We are also pointing out that the bottom directly behind is the owner of the lock here as well. The property will be the one that would be nearest impacted from this proposed development. Obviously, the owner of that property has no specific issue with respect to that. With respect to the parking, new zoning will allow for an exemption for the one to three units parking. In this particular case, we will propose four units. I believe there remains to be seen as to what the interpretation of that parking environment would be, since going to the fourth unit, our position as the intent of the code may not necessarily require four parking spaces for one additional unit above three. I'm sure that the board will have a plenty of opportunity to interpret that. As I mentioned, Geneva Street is a private way. There is parking available on Geneva Street. The project directly across the street from this site, the owner of the air is going through the article review process and many of those cars will also be eliminated from parking along Geneva Street. So we believe that we have all opportunities for honesty parking as well as accept access to transit. Who go to the next slide please? Next slide, four plans. So we're showing our ground model for unit one. That's a two bedroom. We're showing the other three units levels two, three, four, all of three bedrooms. That was a direct response to the connoisse that we did here through the community process. I believe you'll get the report from Owen asked that we also receive the support of the Ghost Street Citizens Association based upon our design and our responses to some of the concerns and comments that they have. So we'll go to the next slide please. So our local units levels three and four and then our private roof deck is located in the rear of the building. And that roof deck will be accessible only to unit four. This is intended for homeownerships of each of these units would be for common video. Next slide please. We're showing our elevations front side and rear. We do incorporate a spiral staircase off the back deck for unit four to access the roof deck. We feel that the layout here is consistent with what the new zoning is permitting to hide some 50 feet were actually below that we've just at 41 feet. The total of four stories would be something that is consistent with the zoning limit. And out of chair will pause for any questions by number support. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? Is this an assistant a flood prone area? So it is through the chair. This vibrates up. This is in the zero point two, but it is flat X. While C-Frog it isn't a C-Frog overlay. The filing of this application was prior to any change that was noticed was on the chair. So it's not going to subject. We are proposing any available space below the raid. We do show a small area for foundation right for Eve. And just reviewing that through some conversation to the contract will be eliminating that this will be a slab all. Okay. I mean, it was noted on the BPD is it's Jeff Hampton here. By any chance. Anyone from the BPD. Yes, Ms. Ben Burraz on here. Great. Thank you. So Jeff, I love your feedback on the no on this on this property in regards to the units should be elevated to feet above the flood elevation. And you know, this is kind of an interesting comment because as you know, anything that's above three units require an accessible ground floor without without a elevator. So how do you, how do you, you know, how do you reconcile a boat? Yeah, I mean accessibility and building have a little spaces above the base flood level. Yeah, I think that's going to be a very delicate to say the least process right now because it's new construction. I think in because it's going to be in the new east Boston, we're trying to keep everything at least two feet above when it's in the front zone. I understand through attorney lens. This is going to be slab on grade. But it's something that we're trying to take a look at. From a climate point of view, especially with the new. The new construction in east Boston. It's something that I think this would be the first case where we really have to take a look at accessibility and what this does to propose project when we're asking for two feet. What is that to for the contractor and so right and I mean Sarah, Sarah, Tilton didn't comment on that because it was, you know, it's proposed at level. So you know, I'm the one that's picking up these these two conflicts. So if you can please talk to your BPD and regards to providing us some feedback and what takes president, I would assume that both are important. Yeah, absolutely. And I'm sorry that it wasn't a little more clear at our recommendation. So are you comfortable that this is at level and not above two feet as recommended? Yes, because there's been under development as attorney went to settle on that street. Particle 80 projects have been through this. So I would be comfortable with this if the work order to be inclined to approve it. I become spoke with that. Thanks. Thanks for your comment. Any other questions from the board? Hopefully a quick one bad chair on the picture. I see shows that the street is not getting. Is this project going to do anything about that? We're just continuing on as a. Thank you. It's like question of the December. That's been a hot topic in each Boston or at least in the section of these spots in the Geneva street. I was probably involved with the first building that was permanent on that street. And it's been sort of a concern over time. It's more development. I want to thank you just for those Mr. Lin's. I know Mr. Stumberidge. You're back, but you hear you for about. Just like camera. That's perfect. So what I was saying Mr. Stumber, the office was that Geneva street is been a hot topic. With the current article in the project that is currently under construction, and it has some other projects that are going to the re-process now. There is a commitment, but a larger project to contribute towards a repainting effort of Geneva street. There's a number of utilities that do need to be added, especially to our site. And we're also a way to contribute towards some of those expenses and improvements. I think it's developing this happen on Geneva. I guess a cool of resources to address Geneva street. And that's something that the collective owners will be looking at, especially the new developers on that street. Thank you, John. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? You're in the end, may I have public testimony? Yes, Madam Chairman, which is the board. Connor, you've been with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. This time the mayor is off to defer to the judgment that's board. I want to associate a butters meeting for this project on December 7, 2023. No butters represent on the call. The outcome met with the Go Street Citizens Association and the group forward in January of 2024 to support the project. There's a boat of 10 in favor and five opposed. The boat is composed. Whereas follows. One common and support focused on the design of the building. And express that they felt that the renderings of the building was beautiful. There were four comments in opposition focusing on the lack of parking and the lot coverage of the building. One resident state, most concerned that when the rear decks are considered, considered the building will take up nearly the entire parcel. Another resident stated that there was way too many barriers. It's for the project. Additionally, there was some confusion from the neighborhood about the parking requirements in the zoning and how the project varies from it's in how it fits into the zoning proposed with the plan E-s Boston. As mentioned before, though, the civic association ultimately voted to support this proposal without deferred to the board at this time. Thank you. Good morning, Madam Chairman. This is a board Christian, Seminelli, Boston Brown, and we have both G-Card lettuce for me. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning, Madam Chairman. This is the board's the last time we've come out of the concert. The latest office at this time, based on the emergency support, the concert will be held to the concert party this part. Thank you. Any other registrants? With Morning, Madam Chair, members of the board of mine, I'm Chris, with the Carpenters Union. We're going to go on reference to this. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Does that mean I have a motion? Madam Chair, I'd like to put forward a motion of approval with two provisor. One that the project undergoes BPDD design review on the exterior vertical e-cress in regards to the size of the e-cress and decking. And the second provisor would be that the access to the roof be through an internal stair on the floor floor. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Stambridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. This we will. Yes. Mr. Aynon. Yes. Mr. Berraza. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. Motion carries. Next, we have two propending cases. The first is BOA, case BOA, 156, 360, with the address of 28 Swan Avenue. Along with that, we have case BOA, 156, 3671, with the address of 30 Swan Avenue. If the applicant is in their representant brother, would there be two cases in board members? Yes. Thank you again, Mr. Stambridge. Madam Chair, members of the board. I have two afternoon Richard Lynch, 245 Summary Street e-spaused at the half of the petitioner. I believe we should have a slight debt for this one as well. I can supply two of board. Excellent. Maybe jump down to slide three. Good place to start. So, Madam Chair, this is a property located in the oriental section of e-spaused. It's a little over 10,000 square feet. You can see in the next slide, I will highlight that for you so you can understand the extent of the total limits of the site. We are proposing a consolidation and a redevision of the lots. Each law rule ultimately contained over 5,000 square feet. I think you can just advance the next slide please. And we are now proposing based upon some intense community conversation to separate four unit dwellings with four parking spaces each. That will be located on the site. You can jump down to the next slide please. I do want to point out just some history behind how we approach this for the neighborhood. We started this project sometime back where we originally were proposing a total of 12 residential units. That was done prior to the recommendations for a planning spost. We have made a number of adjustments and changes. While they don't specifically all align with the recommendation of the planning spost. I feel that this project certainly represents more of what the community expected or at least would want ultimately for this site. If we can go now to the next slide please. That's a very good place to stop. So what we're seeing here is a mix of one, two and there are some three family dwellings in the leading facility. As you can see our lot probably represents a large block along this block. And the changes that we are proposing to the site and what we've based our design on for purposes of. Based on the feedback that we did received the neighborhood. We should try to come up with some of the bit more contextual that represented what we do see in the neighborhood currently. So we can have that slide please. One more slide. So the two four unit dwellings actually are similar in some of the style that we do see along that section of swan I have. So the comments that we did here and we see this in the right. The days that this news only district being the EBR three district would allow only up to three units. A car lot. One of the things that we did communicate to the neighborhood was that under the new zoning. This is somewhat one of the ironic features of having the area reason these locks could be divided and. So we could have separate lots that would allow each to have three units and no requirement for parking. So we could conceivably figure out how to do 12 units on the site with no parking. What we did here a lot of feedback from the neighborhood they did want to see parking. And our client feels that this is a much more contextual project. And I just came here to what we would be able to do as a flight under the new zoning. So if we can go down to the next slide please. So a couple of items that we do require relief for even under the planning spot. And as I mentioned, these being four units would be considered multi family. It's currently a two F district. So there is a requirement either way. But as I said, even though we are proposing eight units, the site could easily accommodate up to 12 units based upon a redevision of a lot. So that could be done as a matter of right. We comply with pretty much all the other requirements under the proposed amendments to the zoning for planning spot. In the next slide, we have made a number of adjustments for our building. To try to address some of the comments that can start to be heard from a bunch of the rear. Our bodies to the rear are comfortable with the setback that we've provided based upon. How we are organized in the back of the property and see that site plan in a moment. site plan in the moment. The next item that we would would require is the the usable open space for the area that would be available for Carnival space. We had a little over 29 percent and that area will be shown on the site plan. That would generally comply with plenty spots in which does require an minimum of 30 percent. A flurry or a ratio is a 1.2 for each building that would comply in our new zoning as there is no maximum FAR required. As you scroll down you can see a little bit further with respect to the parking. We do have a number of we are providing four parking spaces for building a total of eight spaces for both projects which would be in compliance with plenty spots and recommendations. I would point out this project also is within very close walking distance to the Suffolk Downs T Station so even though we are providing a parking that's in direct response to the comments that we did hear from the neighbors. Next slide if we can down to slide 12. Next slide, it's one more. Perfect. So our site plan is showing actually the project at 28 and 30. There were a lot of shifts and fools with respect to how we made the site on the site to address concerns of direct providers both left right as well as their body to the rear. We do show a good amount of area both left and right of the building as well as the rear corners. We've tried to locate the parking to the middle that would be accessed by a shared driveway which is of sufficient width under the code to allow for vehicles to access the rear parking that's located here on the site plan. We create landscape areas both to the left and right corners as you can see. We work closely with direct providers from the rear on what they would like to see back there. We are proposing an additional offer that will go beyond the parking spaces on that border that separates us from the back for the rear of the water. We are proposing street trees on the site. Swanab is also a private way. Very similar Geneva street and we will be adding curb and sidewalk or PIC requirements for the entirely of our next slide please. Mr. Lin teaches it's hard for me to see the notation. What are this? I'd yard on that site plan. What's the site or the left and right? Yep so we're showing a range on the left side it goes. His narrow is a four feet one inch. The required setback is the refeed under the new zoning. It actually goes to about four feet ten inches as you get closer to Swanab but the narrowest point is a four feet one inch. On the right side it's about nine and a half feet from the rock line to the building which combined 18 or was 19 feet between the two buildings with the middle portion being the driveway. Okay because your chart. So I thought that's what I read. Your chart that you showed first had that you were proposing a side or a setback of three feet but in your drawings this has been a four feet one inch. Yeah. It's for the clarification. Okay no. Yeah I think originally we were at three and we actually increased the sorry apologize for that but we didn't increase the side dance. Um I mean is there any side or some other type of the project? The back one out of the second floor is actually about three points six. So it's a little small item than the floor foot. So if you imagine the second floor is extended above that it does now down with that just to prepare it where it says one is hit permaculture and one. Thank you very much. Um so we can move down to I believe slide 13. So we can here we show the front elevations um and the height that will be permitted in the district on a new zoning would be 35 feet. It actually would allow for a full degree story but again since we've been in conversations with the community on this we did hear a lot of feedback about trying to respect some of the existing contexts of swan out and that's why Eric has come up with these designs now to be a little bit more contextual. Next slide please. So our floor plans we are showing a three bedroom that would be an accessible unit at the lower level of 14-hz square feet and then on the second level we have the two two bedrooms a little of our 1100 square feet. If we jump to the next slide we see levels you know I can't explore again these are showing at each building so this is just essentially being replicated on a lot to the to the other side so these are generally the same layouts for both buildings. We can see here a larger 17-hz square foot unit that includes a two bedroom plus we have an office nursery located towards the front of building. We do not conclude as you stop in the elevations not complete roof decks. This is a specific ask of the neighbors to not incorporate that into the project, the originally reshowing roof decks on a triple deck or style building. Those have been eliminated along with the full three stories that we were originally showing. The last slide I would like to slide seven scheme is just our elevations our full elevations but I can pause the air and address any comments or questions in the board. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? Okay let's hear public testimony and circle back. Hello Madam Chair and members of the board. Mallet Eagle is with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. O and S hosted in a butter's meeting for this project on November 8th of 2023. 14 of butter is represent on the call. New but numerous concerns were brought up on this call concerning parking and the lock coverage. With some residents seeing that a project of the size would disrupt the lives of those who had previously purchased a home on the street for the quiet and isolated offered. There is also concern with the flow of water and a concern that water would flow to the properties on the street. There was one comment in fever saying that this project was much better than the original one that was presented and has a much more appropriate and software look. The applicant met with the Orient Hades neighborhood council in the group voted in February of 2024 to oppose a project with a vote of 21 opposed tenant favor and two abstained. The majority of the concerns for this project are due to its noncompliance in Plenty's Boston due to the unit counts on this lot. The setback not needing the third lot requirement and the open space not needing the minimum requirements. Additionally our office received multiple letters from the butters and the neighborhood council concerned that they were being quote unquote threatened by the attorney that if they came out in opposition to this project the proponent would subdivide the law and build more units as a great. Another butter sent letters leaving. Another butter sent the letter saving that if the product should be approved today they would like it to meet the following requirements. A max of three stories maintaining a setback of the third of the lot and no root decks. Overall folks in the Orient Hades community was concerned about the president that a set if the zoning board of crews and variances for this project after the work the neighborhood went through to arrive at Plenty's Boston and the remarks the attorney has made towards the opters. At this time our office would like to defer to the board. Thank you. Madam Chair I'm not sure if I can respond on this pressure. Can I go through a few questions? I'm sorry. You put first thank you. Good afternoon Madam Chair members of the board. This is action fire from councilor Cawettus office. At this time based on the strontal community of position and based on the amount of compliance with Plenty's Boston because we'll make two upon position of this project. Thank you. Madam Chair members of the board, Joe McAfrin City Councilor Aaron Burpies' office we are in opposition at this project. Thank you. Thank you. Other raised hands? Just go. Any other raised hands? Hello? Okay. Yes, I am here. Madam Chair and members of the board. My name is Richard Duckteaster. I live at 24-1-1-1. I'm a 39-year homeowner here and I am in a body up to the project. I am but one house away from the proposed project. And I oppose this project wholeheartedly and urge the board of appeals to reject this project outright for the following five reasons. One, the project does not comply with current zoning or the proposed zoning as planned parties of Plenty's Boston. Two, the project is not keeping in character with the 13 structures already on Swan Avenue. Three, couldn't even three. There are no four unit structures on Swan Avenue. And contrary to a turning-wind suggestion, I don't know of any three unit structures on Swan Avenue unless someone is subdividing a basement. All structures on Swan Avenue are one or two units. Number four, the rot size does not support two four unit structures. And to my knowledge, number five, the developer has not shown any sort of hardship and therefore does not qualify for zoning relief. I urge you to please reject this proposal and I thank you for the opportunity to speak. Thank you. Any other raised hands, Jessica? Hey, are there, I don't know if just because not with us and I cannot see if there are other raised hands. Okay, she's having one raised hand. Of that, Richard, he just speak. Yeah. Okay, there's no additional raised hands. Okay, thank you. Okay, uh, that, uh, Mr. Lens, you wanted to. Connist? Yeah, I do. Madam Chair, I appreciate the comments that were made by O and S. I want to point out a few things because I feel like this is going to happen a lot as we're transitioning with zoning in East Boston. First and foremost, I don't threaten anyone when I make a presentation before the community and I take exception to reference that we were threatening people. What I do as I do in all eyes on the presentations is I present to the community what the recommended zoning would be for the area. In addition, I draw a contrast between what the recommended zoning would allow, especially in this instance, when recommended zoning would allow more units, larger buildings and no parking. And the reason I put that both for the neighborhood was because over the multiple hearings that we've presented this project that we heard that the parking was a concern on SWAN-AV. More importantly, we heard that buildings at three stories triple-decker were out of scale and not consistently the architecture of wrong SWAN-AV. I reminded everyone I did not come up with planning spots and recommendations. These are the recommendations by the BBA and they allow for triple-decker three-in-a-buildings. More importantly, they allow for up to six units on a lot that is 50 feet wide, which this site is capable of accommodating with the subdivision for a separate community building. So a bare minimum, nine units could be allowed with only six parking spaces. At most, we could divide this blockage over a higher feet wide into 425 foot wide lots and create the three separate four separate three-family structures, a total of 12 units that requires no parking under new zoning. That was explained to the neighbor in a way so that they can understand that if this developer shows to go that route, that is something he has the right to do under new zoning, but that's not what we were proposing. And we, the reason we spelled that out for the neighborhood was because of the concerns that we did here. So while this project, I did hear the comments of of people including the counselors office, there's not meets specifically the requirements of Plenty Sposton. It certainly represents something that is more in line with what the neighbors ask us to consider, especially considering the number of units we're proposing. Just four or less don't be allowed. And the eight parking spaces we're proposing, which is eat more work than we would be requiring as a罰 of who we divide these lots. I fully understand that this isn't exactly what the neighbor, I'm sorry, exactly what Plenty Sposton requires. And that's one of the reasons why we've went with this project, even though the neighbors, you know, opposed it for the Orange Neighborhood Council. I feel that what, yeah, needs to consider that, that we're in that transition area where the new zoning actually may allow for more units and less parking, which is something I believe the neighbor has been very insistent about what they didn't want to see. Okay, thank you. Can we hear from Mr. Hampton? Can you expand on your welcome at the BPD's recommendation? Sure, thank you very much. And also, Mr. Hampton, the draft Plenty Sposton has not been implemented yet. So, are we in the existing zoning? Correct, that's anything that you take enough by the zoning commission, April 24th. So, thank you, Madam Chair, members and forward, Jeff Hampton, BPD. We recommended to know without prejudice on this because of the Plenty Sposton where there is a vacant lot of greater than 10,000 square feet. We cannot support a proposed project that does not meet the recommendations of Plenty Sposton, he had the proposed zoning. So, we're staying very hard on this until the new zoning gets passed because when you have a lot of this size, we believe as an agency that you can have a project that meets the recommendations of Plenty Sposton. So, those reasons were on record for his denial of top-ranking. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Hearing none, may I have a motion? Yeah, I'll make a motion to deny what top-ranking is. I think it's too close to the vote for Plenty Sposton. And I think we need to stick to our concerns on that. Is there a second? Not bad. Mr. Stambridge? Yes. Mr. Rolanzia? Yes. Mr. Rolanzia? Yes. Mr. Langham? Yes. Mr. Berraza? I'm voting no, not because the zoning is in limbo in terms of process, but more for the amount of impermeable surfaces as being proposed to parking. Okay, Mr. Collins? Yes. There are votes. Yes, motion carries. Next, we have case real-way 157-0041. The address of 131 hand-off streets is the applicant and their representatives. First, the representative of the other presence. Can we very explain to the board please? Yes. Can you guys hand me that? Yeah, I mean, okay. Okay, great. Is the applicant not completely raised in hand? What if you're paying? Yes. Two. Two. Three. Sure. Mr. Lahn? Oh, go ahead. Yep. Go ahead, Donald. Thank you. Are you with all the lighting and well, Donald? Donald? Yes. Okay. It's the dawn and Ronnie. Show this morning. Okay, perfect. I just made up a panel. Think I could go ahead. Thank you very much. Good morning, Madam Chair. Good morning, Mr. Board. I'm Don Weiss, Project Fermi Council with the law firm, a gay torpy at 175-303 here in Boston. With me is Ronnie Ash, you and the senior member of the design team at the Boston-based Artificial Fund, CBT. I'll give you a few background comments about the program and then turn the presentation over to one. We're here on behalf of the Conservatory, lab charter school, as its name suggests, as to why the charter school, the Conservatory in the name refers to the fact that the school was founded on the belief that musical education should be integral to academic pursuits. And so all the children who enrolled the school, and the K-8 weren't playing instruments. By the time the suits have been in the school a few years, if anyone on the board has seen what these performances are actually capable, some pretty remarkable orchestral music. So that's the general concept of the school. There is a lower than upper school, the entire institution is K-8, but we're concerned here today with the proposed as mentioned still lower school, which includes grades K-1 2. The proposal is at the lower school, which is within a 3 F-5,000 district in doorchester, with the benefit of a large lot, however, to unlock the N-8000, about 40,000 square feet, the existing facility in roughly 19,000 square feet were proposing about a 6,000 square foot addition. First of the addition is to add additional space. I can see the pictures of the varying and the very green line light-build, really lovely space for the kids. The purpose of the addition is to add to the facilities that are in the form of space, that are exercise gym space and they're cafeteria space, sort of multi-function space. That's the concept here. We need relief, minor relief for FAR. We actually just have to do with ISD that we need a funnivart setback various, but we've been cited for that, and as per caution, we'll ask the board for that variants relief as well. The school has been operating here without incident for a number of years. It seems to be quite well-sported by the community. The board is receiving a support letter from the Hancock Street, the 7th Association, which is quite positive about the project. It's our sense that it's not been overwhelming community interest in the project just because it's a known, wanting in the neighborhood and seems to be appreciating it, of course. That's the backdrop. Let's have learning as you walk you through. It's lovely to run. Great, thanks, Don, and thank you, Madam Chair and members of the board. As Don mentioned, we are proposing a modest addition to the site on the right-hand side of the site. We are proposing roughly a 5,700 square foot addition, which will add the cafeteria and gym space in addition to a multi-purpose classroom. These are programs that the school currently does not have, so this is really adding to the capabilities and the functionality of the school. We are not increasing the enrollment, so it still will be the same amount of kids that we're adding program that they currently do not have. This will allow them to conduct indoor recess or indoor gym activities when there is an inclement weather, as well as when it's wintertime, potentially too cold outside, and then there is kind of a key plan on the lower right-hand side, which shows you what the existing building versus what's the addition. Moving on to the, as Don mentioned on the front set back, and this is just on the lower level. There is some existing program space, which we are doing some minor innovations to the existing building. So move to the next slide, please. We did put together the diagram showing our setback as we are applying with the Zoing 15 foot setback. We also diagrammed out the adjacent logs to show the prevailing setback at the street. For the most part, a lot of the buildings on our on-hand cockpit are closer to the street than the 15 foot requirements, so we are setback rather than that, as well as maintaining that kind of that street skate with our building. Just for reference, we are completing some of the elevations. It is a single story. In addition, we are under all the other height requirements. We make sure to maintain kind of a scale that is appropriate for the neighborhood, but of course, as a gym space, we did want to make sure that was high enough for those gym activities. And with that, I will turn it over to the board for questions. Thank you. Appreciate it. Any questions from the board? Okay, here in Nunman, Public testimony? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Collin Arnewman with the Mayor's Office of the Neighborhood Services. This time, the Mayor's Office looks to refer to the judgment of this board. Our office, Osten and the Board are meeting on December 18th of 2023. There was no one in attendance and there was no concerns raised at that meeting. As you heard from the out-of-the-strips rotation, they were reached out to the local neighborhood association. Our office is unaware of any concerns at this time, without a slight report. Thank you. Thank you. And Madam Chair, I have no way of saying it at the moment. Okay, with that, we have a motion. And Chair, before I motion of approval with the BPA design review of the site plan, to review the landscape and permeable area of the law into assess sewer basement. Wait, is there a second? There is a second. Okay, Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Is we well? Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes, ma'am. Mr. Bedapuraza. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Airboats, yes, motion carries. We'll hear one more case than take a break. Thanks very much. Thank you. Well, next would be case B-O-A-1529408 with an address of 31 Rosedale Street. We also have a note on that case that the applicant needs to request the referral for a way to leave. So we can. So it can be re-advertised. You will update the machine with the letter and the applicant needs to file through the bill to go. Okay. Well, then we can take our breaks in. We have a motion. Motion to the trial of the... Make a request. Mission motion to the trial. Or a decision to make a request. Make a request. 20 seconds. 20 seconds. So we have to make a request. Okay. We'll try to make a request. Make a request. Okay. So we have the applicant Mr. Santos. Yes. I get up to the board and do the members. My name is Javante Santos and my wife is... I don't know about this. Are you seeking the referral? No. No, we're not. Oh, you're not seeking the referral? No. No, we just want to correct that. We're not seeking the referral. Okay. Then I don't know where that came from. Then that's the case. That's it. That's it. I can speak. We've got to use the next words to make it. And the plans is to examine and review those revised plans. And upon that, additional violations was added on and also a building code. We feel safe. Okay. So this needs to be a need for due to those additional violations then. Is that correct? Okay. So does that make sense to the applicant? So they... Oh, one of us... But one of those... You can speak with the staff, but due to the additional violations, this will need to be re-apportized and heard at a later date. So let's move forward with the deferral and please reach out to staff and the staff will reach out to you. Okay. So Mr. Stembridge made a motion. Was there a second? Second. Okay. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Ralencia. Yes. Ms. Wewell. Yes. Mr. Lengum. Yes. Ms. Beter-Brasov. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Hair votes. Yes. The motion carries a fifth to mid-appreach. Madam Kim? Yes. Sorry. When you did this process, we did go through a button's meeting. Those staffs mean that someone reached out to them. This is... Please, we haven't had any email. We're not... Yeah. Yeah. They need to reach out to you. This is not due to your process or anything. It's a fact of additional violations being added, which means you need to re-apportize. Oh, wow. Okay. Okay. So we want to work. Please take care of that stuff. We want somebody with something. We know. We want that. Thank you. Thank you. All right. Break. You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You girl. Here a I want to recording in progress. As we roll, President. Mr. Langham. President. Mr. Berraza. President. Mr. Collins. President. Mr. Valencia. He doesn't look like he's rejoined yet. Why don't we get started? And he shouldn't be back online. Okay. Then with that, we'll return to the case, the hearing tone, get your phone number, get your phone number, get your phone number, and we'll begin with ACBOA, 1526561, with the address of 1015, high-park M, if the applicant and the applicant and the applicant and the applicant. And I'll go to the representative further. Will they explain to the board? Yes. Thank you, Mr. Stanger. Mr. Stanger. Well, for some reason, I have an echo. Did that echo go away, Madam Chair? Yes. I think so. Madam Chair, members of the board, attorney Ryan Spitz with Adams and Marante business address of 168A Street First floor, South Boston. Joining me today is the owner of IASA Keke, as well as the project architect, Jonathan Stone. This is a proposal to erect a new four-story, nine-unit residential dwelling with nine ground-level parking spaces located within the two F-5,000 sub-district on approximately 8,071 swift-width law. The parcel is currently used as a parking lot. Property is located along the high-park M, mix-use commercial corridor, which is populated with commercial uses in residential uses on a transient, warranted welfare. The erection of the multi-family dwelling is in line with the planning goals of increasing the city's housing stock along commercial corridors and area service by the transit. The applicant understands the need to create more affordable housing opportunities, and even though not required to do so, as committed to entering into an agreement with the office of housing to offer one unit as affordable. Ground floor, which can be viewed from, actually, this is a perfect page right here. Ground floor will consist of covered parking in the rear. Seven of those spaces will be covered. Two as you can clearly see from this image here of the site plan, two will be in the exterior of the rear yard. Also on the ground floor within the building itself, there will be a lobby, mailroom, a bike storage, mechanical trash room and an elevator access. All units will be located on the first floor, a second floor and third floor. Each floor will be a carbon copy of one another containing two bedrooms and a one-bedroom unit, which will range from approximately 680 square feet for the one-beds and approximately 923 to 955 square feet for the two bedrooms. We have violations for use. We are proposing nine units in the two F sub districts, but the proposal is aligned with the planning goals across the 2030 of increasing housing stock along commercial corridors in transient areas. We have a violation for FAR. We are proposing a 4.0 FAR in a 0.5 as what is compliant. Again, the proposal is to be in the first floor. It is compliant. Again, the proposed density aligns with the goals outlined in the planning context, allowing more density from mixed-use corridors within transient-oriented neighborhoods. We have a height violation. We have violation for both stories and in feet. The proposal calls for four stories and 41 feet. What is compliant here is two and a half stories and 35 feet. But again, the density aligns with the goals within the planning context has previously stated. We do have a usable open space violation with proposing approximately 224 square feet per unit of open space. In 1700 and 50 square feet is what is required. We understand the need to provide more open space within projects that this sub district requirement is very high. And also can be addressed during design review for other alternative measures of providing more open space. We do have a side yard violation. The proposal is compliant on the left-hand side if we are looking at the building head-on. But it is not conforming on the right-hand side with the setback of approximately 4 feet and 4 inches. 10 feet is what is required in this sub district. We do have parking insufficiency. Co-requires two spaces per unit. And this proposal calls for one space per unit, which is aligned with the initiative reducing dependency on private vehicles. At this point, Madam Chair, I'm going to pause for any questions or comments from the board. Thank you, sir. Any questions from the board? There are none left, but the testimony. Madam Chair, members of the board, we are calling in with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. This time, the mayor's office deferred to the judge for this board. When I show us in the waters meeting on January 10th, it was slightly attended. The applicant then went on to meet with the local civic associations, securing a letter of support from the Hyde Park Central River group, which we forwarded to this board. Our office is unaware of any concerns this time. But that would defer to the board. Thank you. Thank you, Pregel. Good afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the board. This is the abro cruise from Caster Repent's office. The Caster will like to go on record that he is in support of this project. The Caster will leave the developer. It's on a great job engaging with the committee, and that this bill will be a great addition. Thank you. Okay. I'm sorry. I'm sorry, Joe. You go ahead, Joe. It's okay. Madam Chair, members of the board, Joe McGatrin, City Councilor Aaron Murphy's office, we'd like to go on record and support the applicant today. Thank you. Thank you. Colleague 617-364, but I'm getting it. Good afternoon, Madam Chair. In board, members of the board, Craig Martin, the Hyde Park Native Association. This was the same. What's presented to us, but we're not doubtful, we're not doubtful, we're not doubtful. We're not doubtful, we're not doubtful. We're not doubtful, but we're not doubtful. I'm sorry, and why does it have to be? Basically, it was supposed to be covered in soil problem. The square, straight building. No unique adjectives at all to the building. Just not attractive was what the climate climate was. I appreciate it. You could consider nothing for it. It's his structure. Thank you. Thank you. Simon, I said the request to you. I'm going to go ahead and you're muted. Yes, that's me. Yep, can you say your name and address? My name is Simon, I'm the last name. I address his 53th year of his street. Okay. Are you here to speak on 1015 Hyde Park out? No, that's not me. I'm here to speak on. Okay, so we're on 1015 Hyde Park out. I have no additional waste hands. Thanks. Okay. If I could just factor in something to what can more relate yesterday? I believe it was said to the only board of appeals, which came from the Hyde Park neighborhood association with a letter of support as well. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? You mentioned that you were open to providing an affordable unit. Is that kind of working with M or H? Yes, we will. Okay. Great. Thank you. Okay. We have a motion. Madam Chair, I'd like to prefer a motion with some provisels. One being that the project enters into an agreement with M or H to provide one affordable unit. The second is for BPDA Design Review to look at the site planning. To open up more usable space. To look at the amount of parking. To add features on the exterior that would enhance the building in regards to balconies. Okay, now a second. Seven. Mr. Stembridge. Okay. Yes. Mr. Langell. Yes. Mr. Langell. Yes. Mr. Langell. Yes. Mr. Langell. Yes. Mr. Langell. Yes. Mr. Langell. Yes. Mr. Prasup. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Cary's. Thank you. Next we have three technical indicators. First being case B.O.A. 154-9196. The address is 20 Rock View Street. Next we have case B.O.A. 148-295. The address of 22 Rock View Street. And finally we have case B.O.A. 154-9209. The address is 24 Rock View Street. If the applicant can do a new representative's present, will make the corresponding case cases. Thank you. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Stembridge. My name is Kyle Smith. Madam Chairman. I'm a board prosecutor. Time today. So, Terrell Law Business Address of 359 Newbury Street. Thank you for calling up the eight page presentation. That we have provided. The call for this proposal is to take an existing Rock View 19,000-beber-foot watt and subdivided, which is resulted in the ALT refusal number that you see in front of you. And then to erect two new single family type economy units on a resulting 5,000 square foot parcel. There's then two ERT numbers. We've provided this eight page slide. I try to help synthesize the project for the board. So, if you like to scroll the page too, this is a good topographical view of the proposal. You'll see the existing rear structure of 22 Rock View Street. There's no intended change to the structure. Again, we have an abnormally large parcel, as you can see, from those parcels that are situated around it. To our immediate left is 14, 16 Rock View Street, which is the prior recipient of ZBA approval to build this two-family structure. It's footprint in what they encounter in building the structure is relevant to the end footprints as provided and proposed by this applicant. To our immediate right is 32 Rock View Street. And that was an existing large single family that the prior iteration of this board also provided ZBA approval to expand that into a four-unit structure. And you can see a respective footprints and setbacks up and down the street. We've also noted specifically letters of support which we'll go through later. You can see to our immediate rear. We have a letter of support from our immediate rear. A button was also on this call to Rock View Street. Has that opinion directly to you? The resulting proposal would have a four-shot type lock with about 18 feet of frontage to the right of the structure to allow for an easement for the existing driveway. And then the resulting parcel would be about 5,000 square feet in a rectangular orientation to the front of the lot along Rock View. If any members of the board have been in this portion of Rock View Rock View is called that way because of existing ledge and the right on the street. The existing structure 22 Rock View is about 18 feet elevated off of the road off of Rock View Street. So by natural geological orientation of rocks and ledge, the front portion proposed to be carved off is uniquely separated from the balance of the lot. So in about a 10-15 foot linear distance, we have an elevation change of about 15 to 18 feet. So the footprint of 22 is significantly elevated above those footprints and new structures. I mentioned 14, 16 to our left being the recipient of zoning relief for its construction to occur in about 2021. There's a lot of ledge there too and to build that building footprint, that builder developer had to jackhammer out and remove a significant amount of ledge to provide for those footprints. Because of that and the kind of staying to the community of that development project, the proponent lives at 22 Rock View and tends to live there in the distant future has proposed to separate what would be a two-unit continuous building to two separate footprints. And by doing so, that's allowed him to remove to the least and not possible the need for removal for ledge. You pretty much strictly just for the sake of running utilities into two proposed structures. So by splitting off the buildings and making their two footprints for two proposed, single-family condominium units, about 1600 square foot left, co-opers for foot right, and by putting parking in the center, we have reduced the need to then remove ledge, which is a significant pain point in the community. If you'd like to scroll to slides three and four, this will give you a good, sorry, one more slide. This will give you a view up the street for prospective renderings for height comparison. 32 Rock View being the blue structure to our right. Fortune 16 being the green structure to our left. And the next slide is a view down the street. And this will show a good perspective of the proposed between the structure to be where the curb cut would be for about one car width to then allow for four parking spaces located between the two units effectively, tandem left and tandem right for the respective units. If you keep scrolling through the slide deck, the next slide here shows you kind of an architectural aesthetic rendering of parking footprints and plantings. And the resulting lot being approximately 5,000 square feet overall square footage. Next slide shows you rough proposed footprints. Again, this is proposed to be single family condominium units. So a condo unit left condo unit right, a prospective 20 and 24 Rock View. Again, no basements proposed because of the need to eliminate and wanting to eliminate the need for ledge removal. You can also see the elevation changes to the rear. You know, again, over about a 10 to 15 foot linear span you're about 15 18 feet of elevation change. If you keep scrolling down, now you'll see we have different setback violations. This is to give you some perspective of the front and side to left and side right setbacks. And in comparison to those things, very close proximity to us up and down Rock View. So you can see right in line with the mediums. And if you keep scrolling down, this is the summary area as put together to show you the rough FARs of average and median and the proposed FAR for the proposed two unit condo structures being just above the median average for the community. The parcel to the rear, we have a lot of support. They're off of a terrace or a street. So we have uniquely deep wants in this area that have been otherwise, you know, having private ways to permit more housing to be go along those and in those deeper lots that have been further subdivided. So again, what we're proposing is in line with both the FAR and the setbacks of other similar to traded properties and structures. And with that being said, I'll turn it back over to the board for commentary. I also have the owner on the line as well and the project architect of our games, the answer any questions that the former have. Thank you. Can I start with Mr. Hampton from BPD, just like to understand your recommendation? Mr. Hampton, are you on? Yes, I'm on. Thank you Madam Chair. I'm very much of the board, Jeff Hampton, BPD. This is one of those occasions where I think that we choose a letter from ISD and the plans that we had didn't match up. And we didn't know what exactly was being proposed plans versus the letter. So instead of trying to guess with the plans, the plan is here. What was trying to happen? We just recommended the FAR because this went through more than a handful of people here, could not decipher the plan for instance, the rejection letter. So that's the reason for how deferral usually, you know, we would make some sort of recommendation, but we should just that confuse it. So Mr. Hampton, and this is also for the lawyer, Mr. Smith. Mr. Smith, I think when you presented the project, you said two single family. And I think that's incorrect the way that you presented it because the refusal letter basically said that you're proposing a two detach units on the single law. And so I read the refusal letter corresponding to that definition. And I think potentially what was confused, could have confused the BPDA plan reviewers is that there was no zoning chart that was applicable to the two detach homes. Sure, just to maybe to provide some clarity, we did draw this to set me into tension. Last week, if you look at the actual refusal letters, they are by themselves somewhat contradictory. They lend themselves to confusion. On the lower portion of the refusal letter, it does say new construction of a one of two buildings on one lot or two unit condominium in two separate structures. So the latter part of the refusal letter is accurate. Is it is the other part that lend itself to confusion? So that is the summary is provided by ISD, but there is a portion of it being correct. Good. The sign I would say that you're quite good. Like why we couldn't even decipher what was being asked. We didn't want to sign off on anything or make a recommendation on anything that was that confusing. Understood. We do have a 20 with a proposed 22 and a 24 on rock view. We have three associated refusal letters and three associated BLA numbers. So we do believe that there are lots of twos and some confusion rendered, but it does not change the proposal for a single curb cut with four proposed oxygen-arton spaces with a resulting lock with two single family type condominium structures as indicating clearly on a part of the refusal letter. But they are detached. So this is where in the refusal letter to me is very clear. It says constructed new detached two family dwelling on a lot, but you're describing it as two single family dwellings. And it's going to give you specific violations in regards to front yard side yard, rear yard sit backs based on the definition. So there are other sectors here. There are, I'm looking specifically at 20 rock view street. And there is a zoning kind of chart at the very end of the presentation. And it lists on there, you know, the, that there's two F five dozen to family and then there's three F five thousand three families, but it doesn't really annotate within the proposal what you are requesting where you're asking. So I think it's not very clear. The proposal is clear, but the violations should be a extreme. We're clear in terms of drawing on the site plan, you know, those side yards that you're asking for relief. Understood. If you look in the purpose section of the refusal letter in the secondary area, it does indicate more clearly the proposal. I just also want to point out to that the cited violations can't put the two structures. There's a 50 foot frontage and with requirement. We have two structures, arguably that would be an aggregate. So we have that the appropriate is cited for our inappropriate frontage and with requirements based upon two separate structures. So I do think the cited violations are accurate. Correct. Okay. So the refusal letter is accurate to the plans that we see. Correct. Okay. With the correct explanation. The meaning that makes sense. And I hope my colleagues it's clear to them as well. So I don't have any further questions because I'm clear. But I'm not sure if my colleagues are clear. Okay. Well, let's see if there are any other questions from the board. Hearing none, I'm going to go with public testimony and circle back. Good afternoon, Madam Chair and members of board. My name is Caroline Peters and I'm here with the mayor's office of near-preet services. Our office held in the butter's meeting in October of 2023. About 10 people were in attendance via Zoom. And there was significant opposition expressed at the meeting. Those opposed voice concerns are on density noise and health concerns resulting from the drilling is the cutting stone on the property. The applicant presented the projects that you make a plain neighborhood of the board. The applicant was in attendance on the committee on January 3rd. And the committee came to a split vote. Offer no recommendation to the board. I received 10 letters of opposition from the voters. And four letters of support from the broader name. At this time, we'd like to defer to the board's judgment. Thank you. You. Okay. And second. Good to cancel the Webber's office. Aaron. Hi. Yes. So I'm here, representing Councillor and members of this. We are the district councilor for the property. The proposed plan, the homeowners has agreed to restrict the knee drilling and the construction until 8 a.m. They have also agreed to park all construction vehicles on the driveway. Provide a project manager's phone number to a body and neighbors for any complaints. Regarding construction. We have heard from many of the voters concerned with the effects of the construction and have not felt engaged. And we do trust that the ZBA will take their testimony seriously as I believe many are on the call. Confirming the JPMC took no official position in our office has no official position and will defer to the judgment of the board. Thank you. Rebecca and the Peter. Good afternoon, Madam Chair and members of the board. I'm going to be in the name of Mr. Beckett Ginsburg. This is a statement I'm going to read from 19 neighbors living on Rock, who's straight all of them will be affected by Mr. Kross and his proposal. During construction and afterwards, we all live on the same block as Mr. Kross. We know you all had an opportunity to review our letters. Just write our perspectives on the proposal in detail. We are not a model. But we all oppose this project moving forward as it has been proposed. And we all agree that Mr. Kross and his not worked with us in good faith. At each of the two JPMC meetings on this project, the JPMC did not approve, rather, and instructed Mr. Kross into come to an agreement with neighbors before coming back to the JPMC. We had a meeting with Mr. Kross and after the first JPMC meeting in October 2023. We dismissed all of our concerns and did not follow up with any proposed compromises. Except for the January JPMC meeting, we did not hear from him again until two weeks ago, after he had been urged yet again to meet with us by our city councillor. He insisted that no more than four neighbors come to a meeting and then brought his lawyer without letting us know in advance for introducing him as such. The meeting took place last Monday. After an hour, the only concrete concession we received was the AAM start time for construction. When Mr. Kross and sent an email with more concessions on Friday, even that had been walked back to an AAM start time only when drilling takes place. We had another concession in that Friday, email was vague, self-serving, or didn't address a concern neighbor's raised. Mr. Kross and after that, it proposed to our city councillor a concession about designating a point of contact and email address for neighbor concerns, but he didn't bring it to the neighbors, so we had no opportunity to discuss or ask questions. No concession addressed the plans themselves. All the plans themselves as neighbors were differing whether we oppose any building on this piece of frontage or opposed building two structures instead of one single family home or one two family home. However, we all agree that the proposed plan is too dense to the size of the parcel, overburden some of the streets last remaining green space, and takes away too much of the streets parking. We urge you to reject the variance as another relief that Mr. Kross and request today. Signed Kristen Favitz and Skiebrenna Chase, Sam Chase, Fulton, Kristina Trinia Biscuit, Sally Collins, Susan Eisenberg, Adonia Gabe, Rebecca Gidsburg, Greg Jones, Barbara Mayer, Jamie McBullen, Diana McBullen, Enasmurally, Mark Morally, Darcy Moore, Justin Randall, and Michael Weiss. Thank you. Thank you. All right. We have full additional raised hands here. Just an extra peek of a final information. Peter, you're unmuted. I'm Peter Greco, currently at 21-7's Avenue, previously of 38-procview, where I've been outside for about six years. Just wanted to attest to the project and having gone through some of the construction that was aforementioned on the projects that were to the left and right of this project. This one falls in line with the character of the neighborhood. This space allotted for the projects flanking it, and Sven has over the applicant has always been very, he's at a large amount of construction done on his property over the years, and he's always been very, very inventive, very, very responsive, and very, very neighborly, so I just wanted to voice in favor of that. Thank you, Peter. You want to keep going, Matt? There are four additional raised hands. Let's try the two more on, and if the other two could, if the others can put your comments in the record. Okay. It would start. Sorry. Okay. We'll go to INES and Dan Tennon. So INES, go ahead. Hello. My name is Ines Medoli, and I leave right across his three from the area where the proposed construction is that the one that we discussed today. Thank you for the opportunity to speak to you. Obviously, I'm part of everything that Rebecca stated. I want to make a point of attention to the fact that some of the information that we have received or that the applicant has presented to the neighbors have also been inaccurate and at least to some conclusions that are not correct. When we talk about parking, parking is a big consideration for us. Like we're right across the street. We're going to lose at least one parking spot, which we all need and use. There was some sort of assessment done by the applicant or someone in his team that concluded that parking in that area was used for people that were not a residence of the street, which is inaccurate because, for instance, in our unit, there's a three-story condominium with three apartments. And none of us have actually parking sticker for the street, but we all use the street, in fact, two of our, you know, in the condo units, two of the cars are normally parked outside. So there is one I'm bringing this up. It's because, as someone mentioned earlier, there is a normal size of the lot where the applicant currently leaves. And we believe that it will be in the benefit of the community if he actually decide or designed a parking for these units in his existing space, right, rather than taking one of the parking spots away from the community, it's specifically from all of us on 17th Broadview Street. Again, we feel that the size of the site does not support what is being planned to bill in there. And I think I'm one of the people who supports going for one unit, a multi-family unit, but one unit that will be more in accordance to what you see on the street. And that would be not as disruptive to the neighbors who are planning to be there on the long term. Thank you very much. Thank you. And Dan. My name is Dan Nultaner. I'm a Brooks I'd have in Jamaica Plain and the budding area. I wanted to voice my support for the project on the basis of the need for this type of housing within our community. We've seen a large growth in large apartment buildings within the Jamaica Plain community, such as those on Washington Street, which have been disruptive. And I'd like to see the addition of housing like this to maintain families within our community. And I think this is a good need, needs a good need for the community to provide housing that beyond studios and one bedroom. So I'm in support of this on the need for housing for Jamaica Plain. Thank you. Okay. Any other questions from the board? I just had kind of a question regarding snow. So my understanding is that it's not going to require extensive excavation of quarry stone that you're working with the existing landscape. What happens with snow at the rear of, you know, how do you remove that? Because it is kind of steep and you have very narrow kind of rear or setback. Sure, there is enough depth beyond parking to the elevated ledge to still be able to push it through for into the lot. And I don't necessarily have any concerns about snow problems. So what are runoff into into these things, I mean to the new proposed units? From the rear structure down the ledge structure. I cannot speak. I mean, maybe the argument is because today and now what is the situation now in terms of what are runoff? Like is the is a lot in front dry when it rains? I can speak to that on high level and Rick, the architect can fill the way. And then send the homeowner in there eight years now. Have shoveled a lot of snow. So yeah, the existing home basically because it's such a sharp drop off in the front, there really isn't like a lot of area for water to be collecting there. And most of the stuff that sort of like the grade beyond it sort of flows off backwards and you have a direction and then you get flow started going down the driveway as well. From the existing property, you know, there it's, you know, obviously mostly grass unused land there today. We did hire a drainage consulting at the rest of the neighbors to do an assessment. And their assessment was that the proposed construction. And I forget specific reasons, but perhaps the architect can speak to it. It's likely to improve the drainage coming off of that a lot. So we did hire drainage consultant to do that. So I think you're, I was just, you know, looking at your drones carefully. I mean, you know, just to hear this is more of kind of feedback to my colleagues. This is a very interesting kind of site location. Right across is zone for three family five thousand. And then right on a property, you have a zoning of two F seven thousand. Along that street, you do have these properties with large lot of land, but across is a little bit much more dense. So in terms of the proposal, it feels in alignment to kind of the housing density that you see right across the street. In regards to destiny story, you know, the presentation or ratio that it was kind of an alignment to point six. I mean, we just approved a project that was 4.0 in terms of its FAR. So I was trying to like really understand what are the concerns of the community in terms of this project. So I just wanted to kind of like give that feedback to my colleagues so they can assess the project. No further questions. Okay. Madam Chair, I elaborate on that briefly in commentary. I just have a link or the questions from the board first. Are there any other questions from the board? Okay. Very briefly. So as a brief note, the rear butter was on the ball couldn't offer to support. We're at two at seven thousand. Cross street three at five thousand sub district. The request to have parking accessible off the existing drive requires us to move the footprint to our left. That results in a greater amount of drilling required. So the single proposed removal of an off street park on street parking space in the air for off is a bottom by part of trying to work with the neighbors to minimize construction. So if you've heard, we're not opposed to any form of development. I think the majority of concerns are related to the actual construction process. And that is something that is construction and related in relation not zoning in relation. So we are trying to have a resulting footprint that minimizes the amount of drilling. And that we believe is the kind of a linchpin of opposition and concern about the other neighborhood. Thank you. Okay. Was that going to have a motion? I like to perform a motion of approval with a BPD design review. The second? The second. This is the bridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. This we will. Yes. Mr. Langham. No. Is better browser. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. The chair votes. Yes. The motion carries. Thank you. Members of board. Next. One five four. Two six. One five. The address of 87 to 89. If the applicant and the committee will rent to you with us. Yes. Yes. Mr. Thank you. Good afternoon. I have a new member. This address of 350 West Broadway. I represent city realty. I hear. This is an application to change the legal occupancy. The city is a city of 70 to 89. Notting Hill Road and Boyle. From two to six units. With rear and rear additions to the existing structure. The three logs comprising the site constructions of the 8000. 272. This is a 2F. 5000. I have a new member. I have a new member. I have a new member. I have a new member. I have a new member. I have a new member. I have a new member. I have a new member. I have a new member. I have a new member. I have a new member. I have a new member. I have a new member. I have a new member. The report releases required for the proposed three parking spaces for the six units. The proposed parking ratio reports with city transportation policy and the site is located near the submarine road stop on the NBA's green line with light rail. Relief is required for excessive floor area ratio. here is 0.6, what is being proposed is 0.85, which we believe is an appropriate density level nodding consistent with neighborhood average. The building's height is three stories and 39 feet while zoning allows two and one half stories and 35 feet, creating the need for two modest height variances. Front yard setback here is 20 feet and the building is cited for a front yard setback by an operation. Mitigating this is the fact that what actually triggers that front yard violation is the creation of a post front porch measuring 7.8 feet wide by 4.5 feet in depth. It is the 4.5 feet depth of this porch, which creates the violation that is the existing front setback is already legally non-conforming. There's a side yard setback violation only to the vertical addition of the existing right side of the building where there is an existing setback non-conforming. The building is not being widened, but again there is a vertical extension in an area where the side setback is farmed with this 10 feet in the current condition, which is not being changed, is 9.9 feet. Finally there is a rear yard setback violation required where a setback was 30 feet whereas the proposed rear addition would result in a setback from the rear lot line approximately 15 feet in depth. Mitigating this is the fact that directly to the rear of the property is a large urban wild area. Now I would like to turn it over to Tangentaria policy design now we can walk the board through the architectural plans and then we'll take any and all questions, comments and then concerns. Thank you. Tangentaria policy design. Can I go to the next slide please? Our proposed suggestion is approximately 25 feet extended to the rear and 25 feet long. We are proposing three 2 bedroom units and three bedroom units and a set orientation to per floor. The unit sizes range from 9.84 feet to 10.025 square feet and then for our exterior design we did want to blend it in with the traditional style of the neighborhood. We proposed lap siting along with mixed with the shimba siting on the doorbells and cable and at the central entry area. We also proposed a covered entry to protect from rain and ice on the survey and we proposed an accessible entry just below that survey for the accessible drawing unit which has an internal lift. We also reserved the three car garage bay and did a grammar style on the top. That's kind of the general or the new system from back to the road. Thank you. Thank you, darling. Any questions or comments from the board would be happy to answer? Thank you. Any questions from the board? Hearing none, then, public testimony. Yes, the amount of chairmembers. The board, Frank Mendoza here, and Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. We hosted a Borders meeting for this project on November 21st, 2023. A Borders set of concerns about parking, density, size, trash and road management. We received two letters of opposition from a Borders that were sent to the board. One letter of opposition may have been sent to the Civil Association directly without reaching the board. The applicant presented to the Civil Association, the Brighton also an improvement association voted to a post-project that would like to defer to the Judgment of the Board at this time. Thank you. Okay, and I have a couple of raised hands more. I'll go ahead and then Annabella. That could be in the Civil Marriott case. I'm Kepler Gray, the doctor. Councillor McLeod, the police brought back into the court of this project with the understanding that these units will be under. Thank you. Thanks. Annabella, Patrick. Madam Chair, members of the board, Annabella Gomes, and the Brighton Austin improvement association. We voted not to support this project. There's a split bit of confusion on some things and concerns with the density. Thank you. Patrick, go ahead. Madam Chairperson and members of the board. My name is Powell Bryant. I am a direct a butter to this project. I know they mentioned the urban wild that affects the rear yard setback, but my property located at 38-40 East and Road is a direct butter to them. The card structure that exists right now towers over my property, just sort of the board can better understand. The street grade of Houston Road and the street grade of Noughty Hill, is approximately 45 feet in difference and me being on the low side. The house that currently exists, there's approximately 30 years old. I remember when it was built and it was built to conform with existing zoning and density of the neighborhood. The proposal of six units is absolutely root of us. Noughty Hill Road is the vast majority of two family and single family projects. There are a few multi-s up on that into the street, but by far the density of this project well exceeds what's the density of the neighborhood. My specific problems with it is the addition out the back that will encroach upon the rear yard setback which will further injure my concern, my property. The even furthermore, the addition of a whole story on top of the existing structure which already towers over property which will be blocking our life. The current house actually sits above the tree line from our point of view. Can you please wrap up there other eights? Okay, so obviously I'm in opposition and specifically towards the dimensional and the density portions of the violations and without out of opposition. Okay, Qingli? Yes, I'm up on a little past three and I oppose. Can you stay joining in address please? My name is Kui and I'm up on street on Noughty Hill. Can you hear me? Yes, Mr. Solandos? I'm up on a small amount of construction. It's like a three four story and it's going to just impact the house or the lights. The construction would be significant noise and dust. I agree everything that's actually going to be a crime set too. And there's also none of the not sufficient options. So the neighborhood is those people's hot numbers. So that would increase. Thank you. Jordan? Hi there. Jordan Alexen of 85 Noughty Hill Road. We are the direct of butters of the property at 87 through 89 and we just want to firmly and enthusiastically oppose this project or all of the reasons are already stated. Our quality of life in the house directly next door will be drastically decreased due to this project. Thank you. I have no additional questions from the board. Okay, Karen, Dan, may I have a motion? Bonjour, I agree with the recommendation from the BPDDA. I make a motion of approval with approval. I will provide this for the plans to be submitted to the department of parks and accreations for approval. Now the second? Thank you. Mr. Stout, we're bridge. Yes. Mr. Roneceo? Yes. Ms. Ruro? Yes. Mr. Langham? Yes. Mr. Berraza? Yes. Mr. Cosswells? Yes. Chair Oslo votes yes, the motion carries. Thank you. Madam Chair, I apologize. This is Sam. For our record, would you mind just repeating the provisor or the hand verse? Mr. Noughty, what was the provisor? It's for the plans to be submitted to the department of parks and accreations for review. Okay, thank you very much for the review. Thank you. Next case. And before we head into the discussion, we're getting further to drink. Central app 136. Go ask if there are any requests for the draws of the pearls from 1kg, Langham? Yes, 131 kill site road in 1-7 Celcut Road, what 21? No. No, no, no. It would be case B.O.A. 154. 83. 80. With the address of 131 kill site road. And wrong with that, is case B.O.A. 156. 7-7-8-9 with the address of 1-7 Celcut Road. Would you mind to the Lord's Road? Thank you, Mr. Stembridge. Thank you, Madam Chair, and it was the boy that trained Jeff Dregor with Dregor and Tuscanyl. For the business address of 11 Beacon Street, a here and behalf of the applicant. And the matter, these are two companion cases. The matter of 1-7 Celcut Road, we were informed earlier this week by the zoning ward of a pail that there was a discrepancy on the notification that went out and that would have to be re-advertised and re-notified. So we are seeking an administrative deferral. I believe a date was mentioned potentially in May. Yes, we are. May 21st before we begin this call. Okay, will that be our motion? Motion to do for the case until May, with case until May 21st. May I have a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Langem. Yes, ma'am. Mr. Berghaza. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Chair votes. Yes, motion carries. See you then. That was not to interrupt your name, Chair. That was for the matter of 1-7 Celcut. In the matter of 131 Kill Scythe Road that has now become a zoning compliant project who are seeking a withdrawal of that case. Okay. With that, we have a motion. Motion to do for the job. 30 seconds. 30 seconds. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Ruehl. Yes. Mr. Mingham. Yes. Mr. Berghaza. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Chair votes. Yes, motion carries. Thank you very much. Thank you. And we'll ask again quickly if there are any more of the questions, the rolls of the rolls from the one-cloth background. Yes. The hearing now will move on with the previous questions. Getting to number 30. The first base, 169 out of the street once was drawn. So that takes us to case B.O.A. 158. Who are 938? Who are the address of the two important street? Who are the applicant and what are the representatives from? What they explain to the board? Yes. Good afternoon, Mr. Stembridge. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Richard Linns. For the business address of 2.5 Summer Street, East Boston. On behalf of the petitioner with me is Tyler Knitstra, who is the project architect. If we can jump down a slide, too, please. Now, Chairman, was the board. This project site is located directly across from the Green and Street Park. It's existing. They get a lot of, consisting of 4,000 square feet. In addition to being, we'll get directly across the Green and Street Park. The entrance way to the airport, T Station, is about 150 yards from the site. Please go to the next slide, please. Our proposal looks to construct a new, would be mixed use, ground level retail and eight residential unit building on the site. The reason we are proposing retail or twofold first, this site is located just on the edge of the flood zone. We are restricted to the type of uses that we can have on the ground level. We originally proposed to have garage at the lower level with parking for six vehicles. We did hear to the community process that this site and its location are proximity to the airport, T Station. But we're just located in East Boston, New York, and somewhere about a desert for retail. So we were asked to consider incorporating a retail component in this building. And our client agreed to do that in response to the neighborhood comments from the site. We feel that while retail is something that certainly would be important in the area, it presents a bit of a challenge for our client, but one that he feels he can certainly make work connection with this project. I also want to point out that one of the comments that we did here in the community process was affordability. This project is not subject to IDP based upon a number of units. We are below the threshold for eight residential units. However, my client and try to again be responsive to some of the neighborhood concerns is willing to offer one unit voluntarily, this part of the IDP for this project. Next slide, please. So here's our street view showing existing site that you can see the buildings located left and right. There is off street parking that is used, but I would point out that this is not required. I'll actually park it for any of the buildings that exist on Bremen Street. There's no zoning decision attached to this site that we require this parking remains. It's a lack of a bit of term, I call this convenience parking, and it is used in connection with some of the other properties along Bremen Street. I just want to point out that I know it's important for the board of this site. There's not tied to any specific site for a required parking. Next slide, please. Just a different view here. A park would be on your left-hand side within walking distance of the Esposta YMCA, as well as the Esposta Library. Next slide, please. Just a different view looking back up Bremen Street. Next slide, please. Just some examples of thereby construction of what's happening, and this is a good opportunity to mention that even though the site is currently in the 3F-2000s zoning district, the 2F-2000s zoning regulations move this into the EBI 4 district. EBI 4 will allow for multi-family use, which we're proposing, as well as height of up to 50 feet and 4 stories. In addition, the FAR requirements are limited in EBI 4. Next slide, please. So our proposed site shows our building. Again, this is important. As we've seen before, we have a lot of different services of setback. This is considering a shadow lot, so even though generally the new zoning would require a 1.30 lot setback, there's also the exception that allows for reduction of the Rear YMCA requirements. So it's sort of a 2F-2000 when it comes to reduced Rear YMCA for this area, including the properties that we look at in EBI 4 district. The new zoning would be 5 feet, which is actually increased from the current setback requirements. We do comply with that, and we're also respecting the modal setback, which will remain as an exception in the new zoning. Next slide, please. So just a rendering in context, we have some better renderings. Here's the cover sheet. You can probably jump down to the next slide to show you what 4 plan layouts. Next slide, please. So our ground level detail is shown at the floor level. We also incorporate some space for building mechanicals and other items that are required for the building. There is the area for the lift, and you see the heat rest areas to the left side of the building. On the first living level, second level building, we have a mix of two 1 bedroom and one 2 bedroom unit. Next slide, please. On the third level, similar to the second level, a mix of two 1 bedrooms and one 2 bedroom. And then in response to comments that we heard the community process, we've also incorporated two 3 bedrooms on the upper level to provide a mix of unit sizes for this building. Next slide, please. We don't show any roof deck. This was in response to comments that we did hear. There is access, obviously, for mechanicals, but no roof deck is being proposed in connection with this project. Next slide, please. So incorporating our elevations, I will point out in the board, I may look at this and say that context of the area and other slides show you sort of shows the newer construction that's happening along Breven Street. This would be compliant with respect to height overall height. We have gone to 50 feet as well as the number of stories under the new zoning. So this is consistent planning spots and recommendations. You can see here our left side elevation as well as our real next slide, please. The other elevations, rear and right side, next slide, and just our section of the plan. So although we do require relief on the current provisions of Article 53, the one area that appears to be of only concern for the BPD's recommendation specific concern would be the setback. But as I mentioned, this being a shallow lot, the rule is allowed to be modified for setback because not only do we have a shallow lot, but the reduction of the one third, but the actual one third setback, but the one third setback is based on the 80 feet, not a typical 100 feet. The remaining items that we typically are required to respond to under new zoning are building a lot covered slightly above the 60% that we're allowed to have under new zoning, however, I would point out that the idea to try to get as much of that retail space to make it work for a good tenant was important for the foot fungus building. We had gone through some reductions in the size of the building for the community process, but we feel that that's something that we would need in order to make that viable retail space. We hate to build retail space and not have it available for a tenant that would meet that size space. We do have available permeability, so even though our lot coverage is slightly above what is recommended in a planning spot, we do meet the permeability requirement so we can easily provide 30% permeability on the site. I know that's an important component of the planning spot recommendations. I will pause and answer any questions on the board. Thank you. Questions from the board. Hearing none may have complete testimony. Hello Madam Chair and members of the board. Olivia Gomez with the Office of Neighborhood Services. ONS hosted a butter's meeting for this project on September 20th of 2023. Laura Butter's were in attendance. When concern raised at this meeting was a garage coming out onto Bremen Street. It might be dangerous and it would be better to have a retail space of some sort on the first floor. Traditionally it was mentioned that in a butter would like to see the building scaled back in the rear. The applicant met with the Navro Essential Neighborhood Association September and October of 2023. They're good for it to support the project. Some folks at the meeting share concerns about parking being insufficient and the size of the building being too big. But on the other hand, a director butter to the project shared that they supported the project due to its proximity to the team. And set that they would prefer a retail space on the first floor instead. At this time, our office would like to defer a judgment to the board. Thank you. Okay, we have a few raised hands. Go to the House Board. Okay, the National Joely One. Good afternoon Madam Chair and members of the board. Sebastian Pire from Concert, Politice Office. At this, I'm based on community support. The council would like to support this project. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Chair and members of the board, Joe McGaprin, City Councilor Aaron Murphy's office. We'd like to go on a record and support this applicant. Okay, and then raised hands. Second to these. Oh, it has one raised hand. One second to Cole. I said the request. I'm you. Good. Hi, are you able to hear me? Yes, ma'am. My name is Nicole Moran. I own 244 Bremen Street, which is one house away from the proposed project. I just wanted to jump in and support the project. I think that this is the best use of the space that is there in any improvement to the neighborhood. I think it's going to be a benefit to all of us. I just wanted to jump on and get my support. Thank you. Okay, and I have no additional raised hands. Thanks. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Yeah, it's a, you know, here again, if Jeff Hampton is here, what the BPA recommendation is. Thank you, Madam Chair. I remember some board Jeff Henson, BPA. This was most of our needs Boston recommendations prior to the adoption of the New East Boston zoning. We are trying to hold, have a high hold on, initially, variances for the new, you know, the East Boston zoning. So that's the reason why we have rights now without prejudice unless you have seen over the past couple of meetings, we're very consistent on this. So I know that council, Colletta has been a big advocate for a Plannies Boston. And we hear that she and other Councillors are in support of this project. But then again, it doesn't comply with the Plannies Boston, you know, it's caused for three stories, not four. So, you know, just, just kind of what? I'm sorry, and it'll last for the Chair. This does allow. It does allow to four. Okay, thanks for, Councillor, thanks, Councillor Linn for that correction. It does count for four. So it does work within the Plannies Boston. And so I guess the BPA was mostly then concerned with the FAR, Mr. Hampton? Yes, that's correct. That's Barassa. You know, also, you know, this recommendation hasn't changed because, you know, we made a recommendation. Three months ago on this. So we just have a steadfast recommendation on this one, particularly the appeal. Great. Okay. Thank you, Councillor Linn. There's no under the New Zoning. There's no asking our right. So we're also aware that the project has changed. And we're also aware of the IDP doing it. But, you know, we're just holding steadfast on our appeals right now. Okay. Great. Thanks, no further questions. Okay. Without any motion. Well, I'm going to make a motion. I thought to the one with the BPA, the summary of you, being with a supervisor for the proponent to execute, depending on whether or not we'll take it even with the mayor's office of housing. So, I'm going to make a motion for that IDP unit targeting a lower, uh, area middle main comas possible. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Lawrence here? Yes. Is we wrong? Yes. Mr. Linnam. Oh. Is Berraza? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Can I vote yes? Motion carries. Thank you very much for the good day. Next, we have case B08154-8361 with the address of 27 Mystic Street. If the applicant and what their representative present will do to find case of boardwork. Madam Chair, members of the board, my name is Patrick Sweeney. I'm an attorney with Mars and Sweeney at 261 Main Street, Charleston. Here today on behalf of the owners of 27 Mystic Street. 27 Mystic Street is an existing three family dweller. And it currently has 21 bedroom units in one two day. My clients intend to, and if we can skip to sheet five, you can see there on the left existing. And what they are looking to do basically is fill in that L on the left to create additional space. So that shows existing floor plan for the first floor. This will allow me to be two bedroom units. If we skip up now to sheet seven. On the third floor currently there is a roof deck offered third floor. Meaning the deck menu now is currently about 600 square feet. We look to build on that roof deck as well as, as I said, fill in the area in the L. The violations that we have, there is a proposed roof deck that's exclusive to the third floor unit. The exit tool is shown on the plans there is interior. The other violation is FAO. We currently have a 1.82. And it will go to 2.79. I do know that approximately 540 feet of the additional space is gained in the basement where there will be a living area. We have had meetings with the abutters. One abutters was concerned with privacy issues and shared. We did commission to shared study that showed there was minimal disruption. And with respect to that side of the building, we eliminated the windows. We moved back to sheet one. We can see the elevation facing the abutter who had and on the left there is the elevation of the face. The existing three windows are there to the rear as you see. That was done after the UNS meeting. Is there any questions on available? Thank you. Questions from the board? Here in Nunmay, public testimony? Hey, Madam Chair, I'm Mr. Board, Sean Green with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. And the buttons meeting was held for 27 in Mystics Street on December 13, 2020, 2023. Since that time, this office has received six letters in support and a petition in opposition with 12 signatures attached. Which will pose sight possible noise pollution from the construction itself. And what is about eight loss of some like the neighbors when the project is complete? With that, we would defer our judgment to the board. Thank you. Any other reasons? Yes, Lena. Go ahead, Lena. I said the request on YouTube. Hi, I'm actually for the end. Okay. On 9 Mystics Street. So I am opposed to the project as expressed in my letter of testimony. I've lived at this home for 13 years. With my two teenage daughters, I work from home 100% of the time every day. And I'm very concerned about the noise pollution that will come along with the project. In addition to the interference with the privacy and the sunlight that I purchased this home many years ago, appreciating it as part of the home's value. And I've invested heavily in plantings and my backyard that rely on that sunlight. So I know that the different of this construction will definitely affect the quality of life that I currently have in addition to the retail value of my home. So for those reasons, I'm in opposition at the project. Thank you. Any other reasons? I have no additional questions from the board. If not, may I have a motion? I'm motion of approval. Second. Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Ruehwam. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Mr. Peter Brasen. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Chair votes, yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thanks for the word. Next, we have Jason Veeaway, 154-8795. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Attorney Jeff Dredo. With Dredo and Tuscano, the business address of 11 Beacon Street and behalf of the applicant, Ina and Leo. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you guys so much. Thank you. Thank you too. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you all very much. compromises throughout the process in culinary removal of the top floor and the front deck to bring in the building down to 34 feet. As well as increasing the rear gearbox, gyro seat back, set back, sorry, from five feet to 12 feet, to also preserve a mushroom tree. It is our understanding the other mushroom tree will preserve as well. We ask that the team continue to work closely with me with during the construction phase. Thank you very much everyone. Thank you. I have no additional reasons. Great. Any other questions from the board? For the mission? They're hearing none. May I have a motion? May I have a motion from the board? I will also know who will be the designer. Have a second? Second. Second. It's a stoppage? Yeah. Let's do the ones here? Yes. Ms. Urou? Yes. Mr. Langham? Yes. Mr. Beraza? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Paralovance? Yes. Motion carries. Thank you very much. Very much. Next, next we have case B08, 152, 2524. With the address of 79 West Milton Street, is the applicant and will they represent the president? Will they explain the case to the board for them? Yes. Thank you, Mr. Stembridge. Good afternoon, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Attorney Justin Burns, Opalgenia, Norton Business Address, 10 Forbes Road, Brain Tree, Massachusetts. Here on behalf of the applicant's managing, and with me today is also the partner of our firm, John Polgene. Just for reference, the zoning in this sub-district is 1F6000, and the lot size of this specific lot is 10,256 square feet. This is a proposal for a change of occupancy from a one family to a three family, including an additional dwelling unit. The existing home is a three-story one family consisting of 11 bedrooms and eight bedrooms. Just to explain the abnormally large structure, considering the neighborhood was originally constructed in 1875 as a rectory for the nearby church, and has since been transitioned to a single family home. As existing, the basement and the single family dwelling is unfinished. This proposal would include finishing that basement to create the ADU and transitioning each of the above grade floors into their own individual dwelling unit. Outside of a new entry door and a window well, there would be no exterior changes proposed. The unit mix would be as follows. The ADU and the basement would be three beds, one bath. Unit one on the first floor would be four beds, three baths. Unit two on the second floor would be four beds, four baths. And unit three on the third floor would be three-bed, three-bed. We found this to be an adaptive reuse of a historical building that would allow a multi-generational family to live together, but with a sense of individuality. And considering it's so close to transit, it would be a good opportunity for the city to improve the housing stock of the area. So with that, I'll pause for any questions from the board. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Hearing none, Mayor Poblet testimony? Madam Chair, members of the board, Collin, our Newman with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. It's time the Mayor's Office will defer to the judgment of this board. Some back information in the community process. ONS hosting a butters meeting on November 28th of 2023. Their neighbors express concerns with this proposal citing that they didn't fit in with the character of the neighborhood. They felt some members and attendants there, community members expressed that they would feel comfortable if this was a two-family moving forward, because there are other two families in this neighborhood. But they felt that jumping to a three-family with a potential ADU in the basement would be too excessive and would set a precedent for changing the neighborhood as it was. We did receive one letter in opposition after that meeting with another community member raising similar concerns and liking to see it fitting with the character of the neighborhood and expressing concerns regarding density. There was other concerns I think that was shared with our liaison that it might turn into a boarding house. We understand the applicant is committed to having their family stay on the site. They did go on to meet with the Hyde Park Neighborhood Association, which ultimately felt that they did not want to see an addition of three families to this particular part of Hyde Park and they voted to oppose the proposal. With that, we'll defer to the board this time. Thank you. Thank you. Sorry, Collar. Yep, I'm 617-364. Go ahead. Yes, good afternoon, Madam Chair and members of the board. Craig Martin with the Hyde Park Neighborhood Association. And as the gentleman just referred, it was brought to our association. And we had heard from their bodies that why can't they two family with the ADU in the effect three units be adequate on this site? It is. It should be noted that this parcel is sandwiched in between industrial warehouses in the back in a very busy West Milton Street right in the front. It's screaming for open space. It doesn't have barely enough for three families. Madam Chair. Don't know why you two families. Yes, ma'am. Cable needs to take a break. They haven't taken issues. OK. So we need to take a break? Yes, please. OK. I'm sorry, Collar. Apparently, we need to take a break due to technical issues. So we will come back to you. Stephanie, how long do we need? Thank you kindly. Do we know how long we need? To be determined, I'm not sure. Oh, boy. OK. I'm calling. I'm calling Cable now, Madam Chair, to see how long the break would be. OK. Well, so can we not have testimony while that's happening? No, because they might not capture it. OK. So sorry, sir. We're on pause. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you. Mr. Valencia. Listen. This we will. Present. Mr. Langham. Yes, Madam Chair. Mr. Veda Brasa. Present. Mr. Collins. Present. All right. Thank you for everyone's patience. I think we were in the middle of an butter commenting. So I don't know if our butter is still present. Apologies again. Is our, and I don't remember his name. So OK. OK. Yes, sir. OK, can you hear me? OK. Sorry about that. Thank you for your patience. Please carry on. I understand. I appreciate you. I appreciate you taking me back. Yeah. Yeah, with the high back, Craig Maid with the I Pog Neighbor Association, like the butters, we had to concern with the density. And as I said, I hate to repeat myself, but this parcel is sandwiched between the industrial warehouse zone behind it in a busy West Milton street in front of it. It's screaming for usable open space, even though if you make it a two family with an ADU, it still wouldn't be nearly enough open space. It's more appropriate than this for units to be free family with the ADU. So we're requesting that this be diminished in density. Thank you. And I will put it as a little side note, since the attorney did bring it up. I think this might be beyond the purview of this board. But since you brought up the ADU, it should be noted that the owner and record from city hall, as shown as a residence in Roslanddale. And of course, the have an ADU understood property must be owner occupied. All right. Thank you, sir. We're going to. But I hope you can recognize that. Thank you. Mr. Newman. Are you sorry, Madam Chair? I also just had the applicant for me five letters of support, which I believe the board has access to some of them appear to be a butters on West Milton, as well as I think a letter from date rat Rob Consolvo. So I just wanted to add that for the record. Thank you. Continue to refer to the board. Thank you. Sorry. No problem. Any other raised hands, Jessica? I have no raised hands. OK. I just addressed some of the issues raised by the last caller. Yeah, I just want to make sure there are no other questions from the board. Because you might have answered them all at once. Any other questions from the board? Madam Chair, I have a question. I noticed in the VPDA recommendation, there was something about increasing usable open space. However, my understanding is this project is largely internal changes with some window wells. So I was curious where what the VPDA was, you know, focusing on with that comment. I could address. Oh, yeah, go far. Great. Can you also just clarify the number of total units? Because, you know, one thing says one to four units. What the ADU one says one to one to three with an ADU. So just to reclareify everything. Sure. As far as what the programming of this proposal is, it is currently a single family form or rectory for St. Anne's parish. It is a 14 bedroom, 11 bathroom building. It's huge. Much bigger than any house on the street. There's no exterior changes to this. The, there's three units. So each floor is a three story building. Each floor will be made into individual units. And the basement is the ADU unit, the ADU unit, which you, as you all know, does not transfer to any new purchaser of this property. This is all family. Contrary to what Mr. Martin said, who does not in the butter to this project, he lives almost three quarters of a mile away from it, is they are all family. It's a Haitian family who lives together. They've been supported by both the district counselor, as well as the state representative in that area, as well as several other butters. The argument about open space. Again, nothing is changing on this building. It is staying today the same as it will be. And if this project's approved in three months or now, it's going to look exactly the same. To address Miss Whitwell's, but we will. I must be gotten the VPDA. Because in the rear of this building, there's a tremendous amount of parking. And they had at least seven parking spaces. The BPDA, as far as open space, the only way to increase open space, would to be cut back on some of that parking. So that's where they were saying. So we have over 1300 square feet per unit of open space. Because this is single family zoning district, the requirements 1800 square feet. To the right of this building, literally 100 feet away from this building, is a project of 247 units that has just been approved. Behind this building is Mr. Martin stated, it is where the city of Boston keeps their buses. If you guys are on your pads and you can see what's behind it, that's exactly what it is. It's underneath the sprags street bridge. Again, nothing is changing. It is owner. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Pugini. We, I think we understand. May I have a motion? Madam chair. Oh. All right, I'll see you. Madam chair, I'd like to put for a motion of approval. May I have a second? I can. I can. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. This we will. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Mr. Betarraza. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. Motion carries. Thank you. We'll now move on to the hearing schedule for the one being the first hearing is case BOA 1571297 with the address of 50 prints in the street. It's the applicant and all their representative is present. Well, they're explaining the case to the board towards. Thank you, Mr. Stembridge. Thank you, Madam chair. Members of the board. Turnie Jeff Drego with Drego in Tusconna with the business address of 11 Beacon Street. Here on behalf of the applicants, David Hannigan and Eric Pally. And also we have Eric Zacherson, who is the architect on the proposal. Madam Ambassador, if you just go up a little bit so they can see the render. Thank you very much. So this is a proposal at 50 Princeton Street. It's we're looking straight ahead. It's the rendered building to the left. Very similar to the building next to it that it's attached to. And the proposal is to change the occupancy from a two family. And it had an ADU unit to a three family building. These would be proposed condos with a rare and vertical addition to the building and with two interior parking spaces access through a curb cut on the front of the building. Just to if we go to the next slide, please. This is existing conditions of the building. You can see very similar details in the building on the right and the left. You can see in the building and the right there's additions on the right and top floor. Those are similar additions a little bit larger that we're proposing to the building. When we started this process and working with neighbors, Eagle Hill Civic Association, obviously we filed under the prior zoning code. But we now would fall, obviously, under the Plannies Boston. And we're going to show you we meet almost all of that criteria under the Plannies Boston. The when we started, we were at four units. We had a front addition as well. And we had roof decks and front decks on the proposal. As we went in meeting with the neighbors, we change this to three units, two interior parking spaces and the rare and vertical additions that we showed you in the rendering a little bit earlier. The particulars of the project under the new Plannies Boston, because we're keeping the existing building. This building is not being raised. We're just building on it with the additions. The ridge of this roof would remain exactly the same at 39 feet. And so there was some confusion or mistake in the recommendation from the BPD. I did speak to Mr. Hampton about it incorrectly labeled this project is falling under an EBR to and a half. And all of Eagle Hill falls under an EBR three, which would allow for three units or an EBR form. In this case, which falls under the majority of Eagle Hill is an EBR three. So we would be in line with the unit count at three units that we're proposing. And also we would meet the minimum lot coverage, which is 60%. We would be at 47.85. Our max building with is at 27.2, which falls under the 50 foot max building depth is 70. We're at 65.4 max building floor plate. We can go over 3000. We're at 1500 39. We are also we meet we exceed the front yard max front yard minimum is three red 24. And again, these are existing conditions as the building stands now. We did the building as you can see has housed two parking spaces, but they were in the front yard. And in hearing from the neighbors, obviously, they wanted us to keep the parking somewhere in this building for concerns Eagle Hill. There's a huge parking issue. So what we did as we worked this project through we removed all livable space in the basement and we're able to house two full size parking spaces. And we've added that through Bob D'Amico as well, who asks us to have some mechanism on the garage door, just to notify pass or buys when cars are exiting or entering the garage of building. When we get into to the next slide, Madam Ambassador, you can just see this is just an aerial view so you can see the size and scope of the buildings around us, which we match or are below and fight. If you go to the next slide, please. And now we get into the plans and so the just to go over the floor plans. If you go to the next slide, Madam Ambassador, level one would just house two interior parking spaces. And you can see there's already an area to pull in. So the curb cut proposed paved area, a little bit of a patio green space and then the entrance for two spaces. So the next slide, please. Madam Ambassador, if you could go to the next slide, thank you. Those are existing conditions. If we go to the next slide, we get into the proposed floor plans. These units would all be to bedroom. This is a good slide. This just shows you existing. You can see how our building lines up with all the other buildings in the immediate area from 48 to 56 Princeton Street. You go to the next slide, please. These units are all to bedroom level one is the parking spaces, level two, 1250 square foot to bed. 3 is 12 25 square foot to bed. And then finally, the top floor is 1270 square foot to bedroom unit. We also submitted 13 letters of support from direct to butters and we're happy over a period of time to get the Eagle Hill Civic Association's support for this project as well. That support was very much continued on retaining some parking to go along with this building as well. I can pause and answer or myself or everything has any questions aboard. Thank you. Any questions from the board. Hearing none, man, public testimony. Members of the board, Melah, beacomas with the mayor's office of neighborhood services, ONS hosted an a butters meeting for this project on October 4th and December 6th of 2023. Many of the concerns brought up were about the shade this project would provide to the abutting property and the opposition for building that Juts out of the adjacent property in 2020 in January 2023. The public association took the vote on the project. The group voted to support with 15 in favor and three opposed throughout this process. ONS received five letters and opposition that have been forwarded to the board, stating the need for parking and the disapproval of increased density. The director butter has expressed many concerns as well about the safety of this project and the disruption of their quality of life. However, most recently, ONS did receive a letter of support from state representative Adrian Maduro stating that the Eagle Hill support of this project is contingent on the approval of the projects to parking spaces due to the continued parking issues that residents raise given the density of Eagle Hill. And he stated his support at this time our office would like to defer judgment to the board. Thank you. Thank you. I'm trying to have one raised hand. Another one popped up. Joe. Hi, Madam Chair, members of the board, Joe McGeckren, CD Councillor and her Murphy's office would like to go on reckoning support. Thank you. Good afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the board's about Shempower from Councilor Politis office. The council would like to go on support this project. Thank you. Thank you. Steve. I'm Steve. I'm Steve. I'm Steve. If you're talking we can't hear you. Okay, I have no additional raised hands. I'm not sure what's happening with Steve's audio. Well, that may have a motion. I'm sorry, Steve, just still trying to speak. Let me try and one more time. Steve, I sent a request on you. Hello. Hello. Can you hear me? Yeah, we can hear you now. I'm sorry about that. My name is Steve Lemus. I live at 14 Princeton Street. I am a butter to the project. I would like to just go on record and support. I think it's a sound project. The off street parking in my opinion makes sense. And I think it aligns with, you know, the future of East Boston. Thank you for your time. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. That may have a motion. I would like to make a motion of approval with BPDDF review. May I have a second? Okay. Okay. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. As we will. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Mr. Brasa. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. Motion carries. Thank you very much. Next, we have case B081552834, the address of 374 Athens Street. If the applicant and the other representative is present. If you explain the case to the board, please. I'm going to ask you to take the case. If you're on, can you raise your hand, please? David. See. Don't say any raised hands. Hey, well, let's keep moving forward. And we'll come back to them. Now we have case B081571194 with the address of 181 E Street. They said the applicant is an example of the reference expression from where they explain the picture. I am Mr. Stembridge. This attorney Mike Ross. Following thedale Davis. Arm sorry. The next door building owner Bill Davis. Bill also owns a lot, which is directly next to his home and where he lives. This is a empty parcel located in a multi-family sub-district of South Boston. And what we're seeking to do is do a one family home for his daughter, who is a third generation of South Boston resident to move into. Mr. Davis lives in the corner building. As you see right there, and then the lot itself is directly to the, well, if you're standing to the left of it, if you're standing on E Street, in front of it. If you go to page five, which is a, a couple down. We made some recent bad investor. Thank you. Yeah, this is fine. As you can see, we made some recent edits to the plans, which is why you see the bubbles and the notations made by the plans examiner. We reduced the FAR to compliant. And we were able to achieve the open space requirement as well. I'll walk you through the zoning violations in a second. Let me just quickly take you through the property here. Next, next page, Madam Ambassador, if you could. So here are just the floor plans. It's a three. Three level house. Starting with the left, which is the parking area. It's a curb cut directly off of E Street, which is at the bottom of your page. There are two floors above the second floor and combine the entire unit is 1323 square feet. That second floor there contains the living area and the kitchen area and half bat. And then the third floor contains two bedrooms and two bathrooms. Next slide, please. Here we show the front elevation and rear elevation, the bubble there is in reference to just a small area of overhang that was hanging between the three foot one inch passageway between both buildings. Previously, the second and third floor over hung. And then we put a foot, put a half to the right and what we did is we pulled it back in or to allow for open space. And that allowed us to make that open space calculation. So that was the minor change there. Next slide, please. And then these are just your side elevations. And then slightly smaller base pedestal with the front and rear slightly protruding over and then both side elevations. As you'll know, there's no windows to account for there. There's no that they're proximity of the property line. So 9 and 10 show you the. Just the next slides. They show you just just rendering to give you a sense of how this building will fit into the context of the other properties on e street. This was the. And then we did just rendering we did just prior to making that small change of the massing on the right side of the building. Otherwise, it's completely the same. We just wanted to show the board just to give them a sense of what, you know, how it will fit the next slide just shows you from what it looks like off west nine street. The corner there, you can kind of see the back of it there from from that side street as well. And then the other pages afterwards show you the previous plans that we had before the changes so they're not important. I can take you quickly through the zoning relief, which is back on the first page with the refusal of M Besser. That's so to mention this is a smaller. Yes, now I'm sure. I'm just going to ask I'm sorry I may have missed it. How many parking spaces is that garage for one just one part space. Okay, it requires a 1.5 as you know, and this is one. Thank you. The other zoning relief. Since this is a smaller lot. This is a 715 square foot lot in a 2000 with a lot with 18.92 where 20s required. And the result of that exceptionally small parcel it produces that hardship which allows for variances to be considered those additional variances would be the side yards as I've mentioned that would be 1.9 feet in a 3 on one side. And 0 it's on the lot line on the left side the front yard setback is at 0 in what's required a 5 although 0 is more common on this street parking as I mentioned to the chair is a 1 in a 1.5. And then the rear yard in the shallow lot requires 15 and we're at 8.67. So I can pause there and answer. I'll just mention also what the BPD a. My or the sorry the BPD a provide a recommendation for approval and we also submitted several letters of support as well. We'll pause there. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? Hearing 9.9. Public testimony. Hello Madam chair and members of the board. Lydia Plaski with the mayor's office of neighborhood services in a butters meeting was hosted on February 15th, 2024. During which time attendees were generally in favor of this proposal. Our office has since received 15 letters of support from a butters in the community and one letter of support from the Andrew Squarespace Association. At this time our office is unaware of any concerns with this application. We would like to defer to the judgment of the board at this time. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. There is a members of the board. Consul of things will like to go and record support based on a good community process and positive feedback from neighbors and the city side neighborhood association. Consul of things respectfully ask that the team continue to work closely with neighbors during the construction phase. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. We have four raised hands. Well, three now. I'll go to Bill and then Dave. Let's just be quick. We have a long day. Hello Madam chair and board members. Thank you for your time to hear my building proposal. I have one this property for. Sorry. We're here. We're here for. This is the comment period for a butters and. Thank you. Thank you. Sorry. Dave. Yes. Hello. Can everyone hear me? Yes. Okay. Thank you. David burn. Homeowner seven cottage street south Boston. Neighbor and a butters to build Davis. I completely support this project. Bill and his daughter Kelly are outstanding Davis. It's been great to the community. And I'm. I'm glad to see a proposal like this throughout the city, especially with all of the. I'm glad to see you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Ryan. Good afternoon. I just want to second with Dave said. I'm also a butter at one cottage street. And like I said, a lot of all of the development going on in neighborhood is, you know, above and beyond the wishes of the neighborhood and this. Definitely fits in. To what we like and just to keep another neighbor. Good neighborhood is definitely a benefit for the neighborhood. So. Sorry. How do you know? I'm playing Selena Berry. I live at nine Frederick Street in south Boston, also a neighbor of kill and his daughter Kelly's. And I am on board with Brian and Dave. My other neighbors. I think this is great for a neighborhood. They're great people and they're making enough to keep their family here, which we don't see a lot in our neighborhood anymore with all these lives building is going up. So I just wanted to know that I am absolutely for it. Thank you. Have no additional raised hands. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Hearing none. May I have a motion? A motion to approve. Is there a second? That's it. Mr. Semberg. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Was we well? Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. It's better. I'm going to vote no just because I think this side gerset that should still remain at three feet. Thank you, Mr. Collins. Yes. Your votes. Yes, motion carries. Thank you. How good day. Next we have a speed away. 1493570. What is the date today on right road truck that we're going to go all over. Have you seen it?簧 reconstructed and it shouldn't nothing the support is ended there. Hurbs it was on that delivery with the address of 18 Albion Street. If the поэтому scandal or representing his project. I have with me attorney Tim Frazier and the owner of Mr. Broderick, I go to Mara, the manager of Joy Dilders LLC. 18 Albion Street is located within the Rocksbury neighborhood, is a three family residential dwelling within additional dwelling unit. The next slide, please. The project does not require any new construction. The three units along with the ADU are already constructed in an existence. The application for a change in occupancy triggered zoning code violations for the pre-existing building, including lot area, usable open space, FAR, and off street parking. The applicant is seeking to change the use and occupancy from a three family dwelling within ADU to a four family dwelling unit. The applicant initially intended for his son to live in the ADU apartment. However, his son lost his job and was forced to move out of the state. I'd like to highlight that this unit has two points of ingress and egress, including the front entrance and the rear entrance. The rear entrance has a short staircase with five or six steps leading directly to the rear yard of the property. The unit has four large window wells, which can also act as emergency points of exit. The unit has eight and a half foot ceiling heights. The applicant conducted a robust community project, process, including a buzzer's meeting on September 28th, and all of them went with the Dudley Street initiative on February 22nd. We have received 22 petition signatures in support of the change of this request. Based on this information, we respectfully request the board grants the various variances, and I'm happy to answer any questions. Thank you. And so just to confirm, this is already built. There's no changes to what was already built, correct? You're just changing from the ADU to the fourth unit. Yes. As you can see from the photos. Thank you. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Hearing that may I have public testimony. Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board. The Connor Newman with the mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This time the mayor is obviously to defer to the judgment of this board. Office of Neighborhood Services had an a butters meeting on September 28th. The proponent also met with the Dudley Street Neighborhood Initiatives, Sustainable Development Committee. The civic decided not to oppose the project, but also did not write a letter in support. Beyond that, we're unaware of any concerns at this time, like to defer to the board. Thank you. I have no raised hands. Thank you. Would that man have a motion? Madam Chair, I'll put forward a motion of approval. Now the second. Second. Mr. Snubbridge. Yes. Mr. Blancy, this way well. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Is better brazo. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Chair votes. Yes. Motion carries. Thank you. Good. Next, we have three campaigning cases. First is case B.O.A. 146.098.5. With the address of 53. 53 to 57. Eerie Street. Along with that, we have case B.O.A. 146.2110. With the same address of 53. 57. Eerie Street. Get the app. Can't tell you. Or there. Representative. This president. Good afternoon. Madam Chair, Mr. Board, my name is Simon. I'm a passing of the church. And I'd like to give you a background about the. A proposal of the of the of the project. If you go to slide six, please. Well, that's good. This is the. This is is that slide six about the previous place. Where it says project overview. Or that should be fine. That should be fine. Okay. Well, this is this is the. Properties addition. That we have on the. That we propose to the city to. To put on the on top of the roof of the church. And this is the facade. And these are the three sides that we propose. Next slide, please. In the proposed in the proposed addition, we. Planned to put two bathrooms on one office. One storage room plus additional space. For the activities that we have at the church. This is the. This is the. The drawing plane of the of the proposed. Construction that we. We submitted to the city. Next slide, please. Is that the next slide, please. Next slide, please. The last slide. That's what this last slide. Can you go up, please. I'm going to go up. I'm going to go up. I'm going to go up. I'm going to go up. From the slide. So maybe we can pause and just see if there are questions from the board. Okay. Is there any questions from the Lord? Yeah, I have one. I have one question. I want to know exactly. Sort of somewhat familiar with every street. I want to know exactly where this church is located at. The church is located. In the area of four corners. It's it's it's it's it's intersection of Sever Street. If you come off Sever Street and you can write the church is at the only church on the right on. On. On. On. On. On. On. On. On. On. On. On. On. On. On. On. On. With all of the questions, Good. Jeff hampton did BPD a review this project. Yes, miss fedabor as we recommending approval. Okay, so. That for some reason I didn't see that recommendation on my package. Did others see that recommendation? I just want to make sure that I wanted to make sure I understood. So that being said, I just need clarification because there are two. So the first one is 1460985. And then the other one seems like it's addressing some building codes. 1462110. Are we commenting not on the building code, but on the proposal itself for 1460985? So I guess there's a question for Norman. So we can put a motion forward that distinguishes these two issues. I'm sorry. We may Mr. Hampton can clarify the recommendation was for both companion cases. We don't make recommendations on building. We only make it on the zoning. So for the zoning portion of this, we're recommending approval. And that relates to the case numbers. I think only one case number or maybe I'm maybe I'm. It's to 146 095. Correct. Okay. Great. Norman, did you read the other case number or no? Yeah, yes, I did. You did. Okay. So I just wanted to make sure that we clear the two in terms of the recommendations. Okay. Excellent. I think you just clarified. I think you, Mr. Hampton. Thank you. With that, Mayor Public testimony. Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor Newman with the mayor is off the neighborhood services. This time the mayor is also deferred to the judgment of this board. Don't have a ton of information. We've got personal changes. We're unaware of any concerns at this time. We don't imagine there would be any. I will defer to the board. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Any other reason. Yep. Some raised hands here. Richard. Sent a request. I'm you. Richard, are you looking to give a guide hearing? Yes. Can you hear me? Yes. Yeah. That was a public hearing on this. Well, I said it all. So it's sad that you guys don't have notes on that hearing. I am in opposition of this proposal. I live. Right next door. I'm sorry. I'm at 52. You in street. And doorchester. And I'm right next door to the church. My kitchen is. Looking out right at the church. And if they put a second story on there, then it will totally block all the light. That comes into my kitchen. I'm retired. I'm home. And the. And I'm here. Also, my concern is that. You know, how are they going to gain access to the roof to build it? Because they haven't talked to our civic. So I'm sorry to our condo association about using our backyard. And they've used the backyard on other small projects. But they still left stuff back there. So I just have major concerns about that. About the lack of light. My view is totally going to be gone to the sky. I will see absolutely nothing. But two stories of wall. Okay. Thank you. Good afternoon, Matt. For. Thank you. My name is I am a new me will be oxy city council around work well. And in regards to this project, the opponent never met with the civic association. Area Wellington. And they never met with our office. That being said, the council likes to move forward recommendation of deferral for further community engagement. I have no additional face hands. Any other questions from the board? Hearing none may have a motion. So. I would like to make a motion of that takes both the building code and the zoning together. And I'm going to prefer a motion of approval with two proviso. One that the project undergoes BPD design review for the second floor, massing. In regards to whether it needs to set back. And then the second. Proviso is that no building code. Be granted. Building code relief. Okay. No building code relief be granted for the ones that they're seeking believes for. Okay. Is there a second. Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. This we will. Yes. Mr. Collin's. Yes. Mr. Collin's. Yes. Sure. Also votes. Yes. The motion carries. And I just want to make a comment that the applicant should consult with an architect. Because a lot of the violations can be resolved. Even if an architect's a system. Thank you. All right. That's case. Next we have case. Be away. 1565345. The address of 1010 to 1020. William T. Marcy Boulevard. It's the applicant and go there represent the president. They're going to board. It's Patrick McPickus. Yes. Gordon. Are you on to this proposal? Hello. Madam chair board members. Can you hear me? Yes. Yes, sir. My name is Gordon Johnson. I currently own milkweed restaurant of Mission Hill. I'm here with my contractor. Pat McNicols. And we wish to operate. The milkweed concept at 1010 Marcy Boulevard. It's the old Boston market space. It's the old. It's the old. It's the old. And it involves basically some cosmetic work and change of layout to the dining room. Initially we thought we could apply for a short form permit with the building department, but they alerted us to the fact that the Boston market people were zoned for. Drive through. Which we have. I have no experience of at all. And so we need the long form permit. And that's why we're here today. We wish to move forward and not operate a drive to the city. Okay. Questions from the board. Hearing none, man, public testimony. Yes, good afternoon, Madam Chairman, members of the board, Ross Cochran, the mayor's office and member of the services. We'd like to defer to the board judgment. At this time, our office did not think it was necessary to host an abouters meeting regarding this, just simply because of the drive through and what the new proponent is looking to do. Likewise, I have no letters of support or opposition on file as well. So at this time, we'd like to defer to this board judgment. Thank you. Thank you. Hello, Madam Chair, members of the board, Liam Remus from Councilor Fitzgerald's office. I would like to go on record and support this proposal. Thank you. I have no phrase tans. That may have a motion. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Wewell. Yes. Mr. William. Yes, ma'am. Mr. Brazza. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Chair votes. Yes, motion carries. Good. Thank you. Madam Chair and board members. Next case has been put on one behind that has been deferred, and then we'll be presenting the next session. The next session is adjourned. We'll be performing this to cases B o a 157 1207, with the address of 77 bigger up street. The applicant. And there. And we'll represent. Will they explain twice? Yes. Good afternoon. Madam Chair, members of the board, attorney Nix Azula, McDermott, Quilty, Miller and Handley zoning and permitting attorneys for the project. and facility boosters through the project proponents from 77 Bigelow Street Realty Trust. And David O'Sullivan, who's a project architect, Madam Ambassador, I believe they are both in as attendees. I wonder if you could maybe add them as panelists while I start. Next and also, sorry, next slide, if I may ask for that as well. Thank you. So this is just some existing conditions in context plan. They purchased this site just north of Oaksquare in March of 2020. You can see it here on the map in the yellow highlight. They are a bright and based family. They do run their business in the neighborhood and have a few properties in the neighborhood. So they are familiar with the area. The site, as you can see here, it's a pretty deep lot. It is oversized. It's approximately 14,000 square feet in size when we are in a 2F 5000 zone. So it's almost three times the size of the minimum lot size. And there's also a, you'll see in some of these, especially the top left in the chair of the site, there is a existing 2F family that they are keeping and adding onto it. They are not demolishing this 2F family. They are looking to add to it. And there is a 15 foot grade change from the front corner to the left rear corner of the site. Next slide, please. And I think David, are you odd as David is in as an attendee? I'll keep going, Madam Chair. I know it's been a long day for you, so I don't want to wait for him. But whenever David's on, if he could jump in. However, you could see here, this is the existing, this is the plot plan. You could see the existing 2F family hatched there. And then the proposed 3 story addition to that to have this go from a 2F family to a 5F family dwelling with 5 off street parking spaces, so one per unit. Next slide, please. Madam Ambassador, thank you. This is just a site plan. You can start to see how the addition fits into the overall size of the lot. I do note that there was a VPDA recommendation, which I'm sure will come up from this better baraza about trees and on site trees. If the Madam Ambassador zooms in, you can see the tree right above the parking is the tree in question. That tree will remain. That is in the VPDA recommendation asking about that. The plan is for that tree to remain on site and not to be harmed or removed from the construction. We also plan to put the top three trees on this site plan are new and would be proposed in new trees. And then also the trees on the side lot line on the right hand side of this image are also new trees screening and buffering as part of the project. And if Madam Ambassador would scroll down a little bit, you could see the overall plot plan and site plan. You could see how this is an existing driveway. And we would be tucking four of the parking spaces underneath the building, the addition. And then there would be one surface site at the rear, again, for a one-to-one parking ratio for these new units. Next slide, please. Again, this is just a site plan showing the first floor, the garage spaces, one, two, green, four. There also will be bike and storage on that ground level as well for the units. Next slide, please. Starting to see some fun elevations. You can see the existing building there at the front. And then up behind it, you can start to see how the addition comes in flight. Next slide. Right side elevation, you can see, bubbled out the addition, which is slightly above the existing conditions at the site now for the existing two family. Next slide. And Madam Chair, of course, I'm going pretty quickly. I know it's been a long day, but I'm happy to go back to any of these. Of course, rear elevation. Next slide. And this is the left side elevation, which has kind of coming from Hardwick Street, which is the side street. There are houses on the side, so they would be in the way of this view. However, you can start to see the garage door entrance is tucked under the building. And again, there is a 15-foot gray change. So we're trying to utilize that gray change as much as possible for parking and things of that nature. Next slide. Next slide. Again, this is just a section through the site. You can see the existing house beyond. And then the addition as well, showing how they all relate to each other. Next slide. So this is our refusal letter, Madam Chair. This is probably, we have a few renderings, which is pretty much the last slide. So what we don't need to set relief for is any setbacks. We are complying with the side yard setbacks on both sides, the front yard and the rear yard. There's 77 feet still remaining from the rear of our proposed addition to the rear of the site. We do need building height relief for both 35 feet in 2 1 1 2 1 2 1 2 1 2 1 2 1 2 1 2 1 2 1 2 1 2 2 3 2 3 2 3 2 3 So I'm a little bit over what's allowed. But again, a lot of that has to do with a 15-foot gray change that I had mentioned. We were cited for excessive floor area ratio at 0.6, but we're actually complying at 0.58. So we're just under, we are close to it. We weren't quite sure why we were cited for that, but we were. The five unit use, again, is not, it's forbidden. We aren't at 2 F 5000 zone, but I would say it's an oversized lot. We don't need any relief for a lot of area insufficient, any additional lot of area and sufficient. So five units based technically on block size alone would be allowed. And there is an existing multifamily residential precedent on the block. So I would suggest that the post number of units does align with that and the city goes for housing production near the transit resources. And we also maintain the existing structure. Again, we don't have any setback relief either. And the final point is we do require insufficient parking, but we do provide one-to-one parking ratio with the five onsite spaces, which does align with VTV recommendations of about 1.0 parking maximum ratio for residential uses in this area, right? And then if Madam Ambassador could go through a few of the next sides just quickly, they are just renderings just to give the board an idea. I can get up the grade change and of what I already have shown you in plan and in elevation from. And try to be as efficient as I could, Madam Chair. Happy to go back. And I think David's up now. We're happy to answer any questions. Thank you. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Well, the BPD flagged accessibility issues of the architect can come in about addressing the accessibility unit because if you have more than three units, you need an accessible unit. So this is David O'Sullivan, O'Sullivan Architects. What we did, if you scroll down a little bit on this plan that you have there, right there, we're not able, because it's an existing building and the street grade to the front door is so high. What we've done is from the driveway, we have an accessible entrance off the driveway. And we did an internal lift from the basement garage level up to the first floor. So the first two units are. OK, perfect. So you did address it. I just wanted to make sure. Thank you for the questions. Perfect. Thank you. OK. Any other questions from the board? Hearing none, may I have public testimony? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Frank Mendoza, here, Mary Soft's of neighborhood services. We host in the butters meeting for this project on February 5, 2024. A butters said questions and concerns about drainage, setback, privacy, the question of rental versus home ownership occupancy. Other attendees had concerns about trash removal, asbestos and fencing. We did receive one letter of opposition from a butters. The Brighton Olsen Improvement Association did support projects with that. We'd like to defer its judgment of the board. Thank you. Thank you. Next, and this is more on the page from Councillor Brayden's office. The Councillor would like to go on record and support of this project. The Councillor appreciates that the proponent is retaining the original structure and is adding onto the building. The house is this house is originally built in the 1800s that she does appreciate that they are retaining the building. She'd also like to request that the proponent, if possible, use of permeable pears in the driveway. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks, Jennifer. And then, Caller 857. Hello, my name is Jennifer Fleming, and I live at Five Hardwick Street. I'm a direct butter, and I oppose the project for a few reasons. They did promise to the McCormick family, who is there for 50 plus years, that this is not something that they would do. I'm concerned about the density of the project with 15 bedrooms, five units. I'm also concerned about the parking implications. We have, they've two units now, and half of those folks park on the street. We've lost four spaces recently, appropriately, in order to accommodate emergency vehicles going around the corner. We are not able to petition for new permits in our neighborhoods. So that's a problem for folks like us and others who don't have any access to off-street parking. The driveway excavation thirdly is concerning, given we have a mature tree that's within about five feet of that driveway. And we've lost many trees in the neighborhood, which is of course an environmental concern. And we're finally concerned about the design with the elevation, which you could see from the prior photos. There are renderings, there are like 23 windows on our side, and on the other side, there are multiple windows as well. So there's a lot, there'll be a lot of noise, a lot of light, and a lot of privacy as well as lots of sunlight issues. And I think I mentioned light pollution if I didn't already. Thank you so much. I appreciate your time. Call at 857. Hi, my name is Cindy Lux, and I'm not a direct butter. I live around the corner at 44 Hardwick Street in Brighton. And I too am opposed to this project for pretty much all the same reasons that Jen's plumbing the previous caller just mentioned. And I just wanted to say that with the increasing density in the city, again, not only parking, but also driving. I mean, their cars lined up down that street. And basically, if you're sending big alone now, being too far is trying to pass. It becomes a, there's driving hazard issues, also related to the increased density, not to mention the lack of green space. And places for some of the wild animals now running around our neighborhood to take refuge. Thank you. Any other raise stands? Thank you. No additional raise stands. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? May I have a motion? A motion to approve with BPDA designer. If you can. Thank you very much. Second. Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. This we will. Yes. Mr. Wingham. Yes. This is better browser. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Chair votes yes. Motion carries. Last case, Mr. Romerancy. Thank you. Thank you. So with that, we will return to Keish, Norway. One five five two eight three four. With the address of three 74 Athens Street. Turning Marancy. Take it away. Thank you, Mr. Stembridge. My apologies Madam Chair, members. Zoom froze when I attempted to activate my camera. So I'm not activating my camera this time. My name is George Marancy. I'm an attorney with the business address at 350 West Broadway in Salt Boston. I represent Cedarwood Development David, and David and Teo David. The Teo was online with us tonight. Madam Chair, members, this is an application for a new four story three family dwelling on a vacant lot at 374 Athens Street in Salt Boston. The site is owned MFR multi-family residential. The building design is quite simple. The ground floor would consist of the main entry with the vestibule for unit one containing a one stop lift to provide accessible access to the second floor where unit one is located at 980 square foot two bedroom unit. The third floor would be unit two or 920 square foot two bedroom unit. Well unit three on the third fourth floor would be an 1130 square foot two bedroom unit. The roof would be unoccupied. The application requires zoning relief first in the form of variance for insufficient lot size of 4,000 square foot. Lot would be required for required by zoning for three family dwelling where it's the lot here is approximately 1,620 square feet. This site is within an area populated with many smaller lots with building occupancies ranging from one to three families making what is being proposed here. Not an outlier in terms of as-built conditions in the neighborhood. This includes in terms of the proposed four story building height which is zoning compliant and also which is the BPA recommendation. Notes is relatively common in the surrounding neighborhood. A variances required for excessive floor area ratio. The maximum in the sub district is two and what is being proposed is 2.73. There is insufficient usable open space with 200 square feet per unit required by zoning and 180 square feet per unit being proposed through the combination of the rear yard and modestly sized balcony serving each unit. 15 foot rear yard setback is required whereas a 10 foot rear yard setback is being proposed. There are side yard setback violations on the left side of the building. There would be a zero setback situation which would but an approximately five foot wide alley serving the abutting property. There would be no windows of course on the left elevation. On the right side the provided setback would be two and a half feet whereas the code requires three feet. On that side the lot is a very large commercial parking lot. Finally there are two violations attributable to the proposed off street parking which consists of two tandem spaces in a ground floor garage, the two spaces and tandem formation or an area measuring approximately 11 feet wide by 37 feet deep. This creates a violation for both insufficient off street parking with four spaces required by zoning and for design of off street parking owing to the tandem configuration. With that I'll pause and take any questions that members may have. Thank you Mr. Marancy any questions from the board? Hearing none may I have public testimony? Hello Madame Chair, members of the board, Lydia Flasky with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. And a butter's meeting was hosted on February 6th, 2024 during which time community members expressed concern over the preservation of green space and maintaining a healthy rear yard setback. Retaining mature trees was also of concern to which the proponent responded that trees would not be removed. Other concerns mentioned were building size noting that the proponent met with a butter's on site after the meeting to address concerns. Our office received two letters of support and two letters of opposition, one specifically opposing roof decks, which are a part of the current proposal. We would like to defer to the judgment of the board at this time. Thank you. Good afternoon Madame Chair, as members of the board, this is Laura from Consul. Office, Consul, Flynn would like to go on record and support based on a good community process and good faith compromises with neighbors that has resulted in previous concerns being satisfied for, for a butter's and a civic group. Consul, Flynn, respectfully request that seem to continue working closely with the neighbors on the construction face. Thank you. Thank you. Madame Chair, I have no raised hands at the moment. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Hearing none may have a motion. Motion go through with 58 design ideas. Second. Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Wewell. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes, ma'am. Ms. Betabraza. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Thank you everyone. Have a good day. Thank you. Recording stopped. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.