 you you uniqueness and there's a definitely where we get of Boston zoning Board of Appeal Hearing for April 5th is now in session. This hearing is being conducted in accordance with the applicable provisions of the open meeting law, including the updated provisions enacted by the legislature last year. The new law allows the Board to continue its practice of holding virtual hearings until July 15, 2022. This hearing of the Board is being held remotely via the Zoom Webinar event platform. This meeting is also being live streamed. In order to ensure this hearing of the Board is open to the public, members of the public may access this hearing through telephone and video conferencing. The information for connecting to this hearing is listed on today's hearing agenda, which is posted on the public notices page of the city's website, Boston.gov. Members of the public will enter the virtual hearing as attendees, which means you will not see yourself on the screen and you will be muted throughout unless administratively unmuted when asked to comment. Other members, applicants and their attorneys or representatives will participate in the hearing as panelists and they will appear alongside the presentation materials when speaking. Panelists are strongly encouraged to keep the video on while presenting to the Board. Just with our in-person meetings, comments and support will be followed by comments in opposition. The order of comments is as follows. Elected officials, representatives of elected officials and members of the public. The chair may limit the number of people called upon to offer comment and the time for commenting as time constraints require. So that reason the Board prefers to hear from members of the public who are most impacted by a project. That is those individuals who live closest to the project. If you wish to comment on an appeal, please click the raise hand button along the bottom of your screen in the Zoom webinar platform. Click it again and your hand should go down. When your hand, when the host sees your hand, you will receive a request to unmute yourself. Select yes and you should be able to talk. If you are connected to the hearing by telephone, press star nine to raise and lower again your end. Again, if you are on this meeting by telephone, please press star nine to raise and lower your hand. You must press star six to unmute yourself after you receive the request from the host. Those called upon to comment will be asked to state their name and address first and then can provide the comment. In the interest of time and to ensure that you have enough time to do so, please raise your hand as soon as Mr. Regiro reads the address into the record. Do not raise your hand before the relevant address is called, all the meeting hosts will not note the call on you at the appropriate time. Please lower your hand as soon as you have spoken so the Miss Ambassador knows who else to call upon. These instructions will be repeated throughout the meeting. Before we start, let's take a quick roll call. Mr. Regiro is the acting secretary, Mr. Oleg. Good morning here. Good morning, Ms. Dong. Good morning, Madam Chair. Good morning, Mr. Robinson. Good morning, Madam Chair. Good morning, Mr. Ligress. Good morning, Madam Chair. Good morning. Jeff, Mr. Hampton from the BPD. Good morning, Madam Chair. Good morning. And Mr. Domingo here from VTD. Okay. We will hear from him as necessary. So go ahead, Mr. Regiro. Good morning, calling the first extension for 930 case BLA 904095 142345. Trumont Street. I'm name and address for the record. Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Attorney John Pogini, 10th, 12th, Road and Grangtery on behalf of the applicant. We are seeking one year extension in the current. Hold on, hold on, Miss Pogini. For this extension, this relief was originally issued on March 1st, 2019. And we granted the first extension on March 1st, 2020. Second, however, that extension was unnecessary. We're totaling the original relief for me valid until June 6th of 2022. I recommend that the board confirm that for the record that the relief is valid until that day. And now the applicant seats an additional extension until June 6th, 2023. Hello, Chair. I move that we're confirmed that all relief, all applicable tolling remains valid through June 6th, 2022. And further move that we granted an additional extension through June 6th, 2023, which of course would include any and all applicable tolling. We have a second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Thank you. Calling the next case, BLA 892, 898267, all calling the avenue. Any manadred for the record? Doug, Stephanie, what are you on? Let me check to see if that's Doug and Jim. Is that you listed as Doug and Jim? Send a request to unmute you. No, that is Doug at your, where's your band? This is a Terry George Morransky. I can handle this if Doug is not here. Yes, please. I'll put your name and address on the record, please. Yes, my name is George Morransky. I'm an attorney with business address and 50 works for our way in self-pots. Thank you. The Board originally granted relief on December 20th, 2019. And it granted its first relief until December 20th, 2022, however that extension was unnecessary. We're tolling the original relief remains valid at March 27th, 2023. I recommend that we confirm this to the record. Chair, I move to confirm that all applicable relief remains valid with all applicable tolling through March 27th, 2023. There are a second. All those in favor? Aye. Thank you. The most? Motion carries. Thank you. Call in next case, BOA 8252871 Mozart Street. Name and address for the record. Let's move on, Mr. Suleger. Call in next case, BOA 101594217 Wombok Street. Hi, this is Robert Tolin, the architect for the project. Please put your address on the record. From my Chumsford, Massachusetts. Okay. Go ahead. The Board originally granted relief on February 28th, 2020, the first extension. So this is the first extension request. However, Tolin applies to the relief. With Tolin, the original relief remains valid until June 5th, 2023. I recommend that we confirm that. I'm Chair, motion to confirm that all of the relief, inclusive, applicable tolling, is valid through June, 2023. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Thank you. Calling next case, BOA 463655120 West Fort Street. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the Board, Mark LeCasse. LeCasse last 75 Arlington Street in Boston, attorney for the applicant. Okay. This is a long one. So the Board originally granted this relief on December 14th, 2015. Two separate of butters of Pills decisions and both cases were resolved by April 19th, 2017. The Board granted the first extension of this relief until April 19th, 2020. The Board then granted a second and third extension of the relief until April 19th, 2022. The second and third extension for our necessary. With tolling, the first extension remains valid until July 25th, 2021. However, the applicant had already received their extension of the relief until April 19th, 2022, before the tolling expired. I recommend that the Board confirm for the record that its prior extension of the relief included all applicable to the following. The applicant is before the Board today requesting an additional extension. I recommend the Board grant the additional extension if it determines that it is appropriate under the circumstances. Take me into account that it would only be the applicant's second necessary extension rather than its third. May I have a motion? I mean, sorry, is there a second? All those in favour? Aye. Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Madam Chair, was Mr. Jury, did he make the motion? Oh, sorry. I don't think I did. I'm sorry, I'm jumping ahead a bit. Go ahead. All right. So if we could just quickly make the motion, the Missile Acosta, I presume that this is any request for one year additional extension. Is that correct? One year additional extension through, I guess that would be. April 19th, 2023. Yes. Okay. All right. So the motion, Madam Chair, is to confirm that any an all applicable relief remain valid with all applicable to April 19th, 2022. And further move to grant additional relief this applicant to April 19th, 2023, which of course will include any an all applicable to. All second, Matt. All those in favour? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Motion carries. Mr. Locast, please tell the applicant that since the case was settled in 2017, we understand because of COVID and the tolling, etc., etc. But please make sure that this project continues to proceed. I'm happy to report that we're nearly concluded the BPD design and process and permits are in the near future. Thank you. Thank you so much. I'm just going to go back real quick to 71 modes out street. Does anyone want to ask for that? Okay. Madam Chair, the recommendation is on this is. No, not mine. Okay. Okay. Let's just move on. Call the next case. Board of final order. BOA 927-849-4862-Gurkline-2. Any hearing, all right? Madam Chair? Yes, Mr. Quilty. Can you tell us why you're here for the right. Yes, ma'am. Dennis Quilty attorney, 28 states, representing the applicants. This is a recreational cannabis facility, which the board granted relief and grant. It's subject to a one year sunset, if you will. During the last year that that period would be up sometime in the next few weeks. The applicant had yet to receive its state license insurance more approximately 30 days ago. So clearly we haven't been able to operate the facility at this point in time. I wanted to get back in front of the board to clarify the start and end date, if you will, the one year sunset. We dealt with the staff attorney. I originally filed an extension request. It was determined at the more appropriate way to bring this to the board. It was under board final arbiter. And we are here today in that regard with me. This morning is Ross Bradshaw, who is the owner operator of the facility. We haven't been able to complete the license share to get in a position to be open. And are asking for relief so that we can get back to you after we're open and you've had a chance to see how the operation goes. Mr. Quilty, so the question for you is. I'm sure that you've looked at the link to the hearing about the reasons why if there were any for the one year review. I'm pretty sure Madam Chair, there were concerns raised by the Fenway Park, which is quite near the facility that they wanted to make sure that the operation was consistent with good business practices. And I believe it's in that context that the board created the one year sunset. The applicant feels perfectly capable of providing information. We've got good business practices for that period, but he hasn't been able to be open yet in our relief would expire. As I said, probably in the next three weeks. Okay. Madam Chair, for my recollection, it was operational stuff. So I would be comfortable with the motion to clarify that it's they come back one year from the issuance of significant occupancy. Is there a second? No. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Thank you very much. All in the next case, BOA, one, two, eight. Mr. Ruggier, can you find out if there are any deferrals over draws? Are there any deferrals over draws for 930? All right. Hearing none. BOA, first 930 case. BOA, one, two, eight, two, four, eight, one, 200 Byron Street. The violations are Article 53, Section 52, Rufstruck Restriction, Article 53, Section 9, Floor Area Regido, Accessive, Article 53, Section 9, Building, Hyde, Accessive, and Stories. Article 53, Section 9, Front Yards, Incefficient, Article 53, Section 9, Side Yards, Incefficient, Article 27T, five, e-spost, and I bought Apple Pability. Name and address for the record. Good morning, Madam Chairwoman and Board Members. I'm Attorney Peter T. Lions, 99 Fulton Street Boston Massachusetts. And I have put it here before you today on behalf of the applicant, Mr. Jack Mahoney, of Lynn McRealty. Also with me today, Mr. William Schelfand, and Mr. Matt Panache, of the KDI Architectural firm, who have assisted us in missing debuts. Okay, Mr. Lions, we have a long agenda today, so I want you to immediately get to the point we are concerned about all the violations. And what is of interest to us is also the extension of living space into the basement. So please proceed. Okay, this is in East Boston neighborhood district, and isn't it in and two families on. The owner of the property proposes to renovate an existing single family dwelling and transform it to a two family dwelling, which requires a change of occupancy. There is no bedrooms or anything in the basement that will be living area, and we're seeking to have conditional use permits issued to allow this project to move forward. Okay, so tell us precisely what is the use of the basement. I believe it's a living area, but I may defer it to Will Schupan to respond to that. Morning Madam Chair, Will Schelfand calls to design some of the mess. The basement is going to be used as a family area, as well as a laundry area. There will be no living room. No bedrooms rather in the basement. Any proposed kitchen or kitchenettes in the basement. Now I see on this plan, which is an updated plan. There seems to be a kitchenette shown. There is non planned for the basement. Tell us about the floor to ceiling height and the access to meters, etc. Independent of entrance to the dwelling unit. There'll be a egress window out the rear with a layer accessing it. The basement has existing windows in it, and the ceiling height will be around seven foot six. Okay, and then tell us about how this change of occupancy is supposed to occur and tell us about the proposed sides of each unit. Yes, so the as attorney lines mentioned existing single family being proposed to turn into a two family. The second unit will be around, I believe it's 1,500 square feet, three bedroom. We're providing parking in the rear via a new curb cut. Parking for each unit. And this is taking it previously dilapidated building and trying to renovate it. And what's the square footage of the lot, the lot square footage? 3,700 square feet management. So it is even for one family, it's small since the two app it requires 4,000 square feet for the additional. So are you proposing a roof deck? No, Madam Chair. Okay, so tell us about the building height. The building height we are proposing a 33 and a half foot high building. We're allowed 35 that is measured from the grade. The building is, I believe, 2 and a half feet above grade for the first floor, racing this slightly raised out. And so you're cited because it's not 2 and a half stories. It's three essentially. Well, it was our position that was 2 and a half stories. Okay, got it. How are the plans? Yes, and can you tell Ms. Ambassador which plan we should be looking at to look at to see the parking and the parking layout? I would go to a zero to zero. Okay, so you have open space and then the three parking spots got it. And is that a shared drive the way or not? Correct. Yes, yes. Okay, Mr Robinson, how are the plans? The plans are good. They confirming what the proponent is addressing. There is a, says a wet bar shown, but it is called as a family room. Doesn't look like there's any cooking. And I think the height is consistent with the other buildings on the street. So no questions from me. All right. Any questions from the board? What is the current use of the basement? It's mechanical space and storage. And that will, and how will that function be continued in the, on the future plans? There is space going to be allocated for the mechanical equipment towards the front of the building. For easy access to just the utilities in the street. The heating and cooling units will be independent within the units themselves. Okay, and the final question. You said the floor ceiling height was seven foot six. What is the floor at the grade height of the basement? I believe it is, we have, I think we have about a two and a half foot extension above grade to underside of floor. So the first floor to the first floor. All right. So I mean, the underside of floor is probably at least a foot less than that. Yes. There is some great change across the front of the site. So it varies. Well, there's, I mean, basically it's below grade. Correct. Any other questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak in support of this proponent? Yes. Good morning. A damn chair members of the board and it's all having the mayor's office of the neighborhood services. Our office held on a butter is meeting for this project in January 2022. That was well-attentive. Play at butters concerns were over window placement, which the applicant works closely with the butter to redesign concerns. Concerns were also regarding heights and most specifically sites at back. Project was also presented before the Harbor View neighborhood association, which voted in opposition 22 to 12. Our office has received one letter in opposition, one letter of concern regarding communication through all the project and site setback. And a petition with 32 neighbors supporting the project. Thank you. Anybody else to speak either in support or in opposition? Good morning, my name is chair. Go ahead, minor. That was I was going to mention that your hand was raised. Go ahead. Thank you so much. My name is out of my own chair members of the board of minor, for raise representative carpenter's beauty. We want to go and represent the board of its prey. And my chair, I got on additional raised hand. Yes, Madam chair, we do have letters of support and one letter of opposition. And Joseph, you were muted. Can you state your name and address for the record, please? Can you hear me? OK, yeah, my name is Joseph Doherst. I live at 190 Papa's Parshot University, Rhode Island. I am the father of Maddie Doherst, who is the nearest butter. Maddie couldn't be here today because she's on a plane. Otherwise, she would be here. So I'm speaking as her representative. So to reiterate, she's the nearest butter immediately to the north at 180 Byron Street. First, that she favors Maddie favors rehabilitation of this property. You know, she had rehabilitated the property that she lives in. And that work was written up in the Boston Globe. She's all in favor of eliminating the ice. Tell us if she has any concerns. She does. OK, just bullet point them for us, please. Absolutely. There are basically two. One is the one that was referenced earlier, which is that the third floor does not appear to comply with. You know, the size stipulations. It's clearly my. Got it. And the second point. The second is that there's a foot and a half between her property line and the existing basement. That can't be changed. But the extension, the addition in the rear continues to follow that line. Foot and a half away from her property line, rather than adhering to the required seven foot setback. She would like that to be set back. Thank you. I want no additional ways to use it. And let's see. BPD. Thank you. Madam chair members, what we've recommended approval with proviso. I wanted to refer to BTT on the off street parking. It looks tight back there, but I defer to Bob on that recommendation. We would just ask for design review, especially when it comes to changing the roof line. Thank you. I have a motion, please. I'll make a motion to approve with BPD design review. I do think it needs some help on the roof line. And it would be good. I think to look at the rear extension to see if there's anything that you can do for the butter with BTT review of the parking. Is there a second? Second. All those in favor? Any opposed? Motion carries. Just so good luck. I just want to make sure that most applicants know this, but today is a six member board. We have a six member board. And for approval, you need five members in support of the project. So just a reminder that if you need to have an administrative deferral, you may ask for that. So let's proceed. Next case, please. I'm next case. B.O.A. 1 through 9 9105 219 Paris Street. The violation of the article 25 section 5. What has a district, Article 53 section 948. Floor area ratio excessive. Article 53 section 9. Sirea and vision. Article 53 section 12. Ray. Article 53 section 56. O street parking. Article 53 section 8. Youth Fibinum. Article 53 section 4. Greenbelt protection. Overlay district. Applicability. Article 53 section 9. Additional Laudier area. Insufficient. Article 53 section 9. Building high success of the stories. Article 53 section 9. Building high success of the feet. Article 53 section 9. Unusable open space. Insufficient. Name and address for the record. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board attorney, Jeff Drago with Drago and Tuscano with the business address of 11 Beacon Street. Here on behalf of the applicant, Weld-Carlo. For a project at 219 Paris Street, which is the middle rendering that you're out of the three buildings that you're looking out on the sheet. The proposal is to raise an existing commercial structure, which has been used as a garage space. Probably to be worked on a years ago and to rack a new residential building with six units and four ground level interior parking spaces. The layout of this building is on our first floor. That's a good picture of what's existing on our first floor. We would have the main entry and second egress entry. It would have a accessibility lift to the second floor. And it would house the four parking spaces to in the back to on the side and then bike racks in the back corner. The it would also have a rare yard access. The second floor of the building going up with house units one and two unit one is 630 square foot one bedroom on bath with a study. So Mr. Councillor Drago, can you please just summarize one, you know, what the average size is our bedrooms. Go ahead. We've got three one bedrooms with a study madam chair in the average size is 705 square feet. And we've got three two bedrooms at an average size of 955 square feet. They are only rare decks proposed on this project. So there's no roof decks and a structure. I can go over the violations one by one. Yes, they are quite a few that you have here. So go ahead. Yes, so minimum lot size. It's a thousand square feet for each additional unit. We are 2500 square feet of similar to the buildings building to the right of us. We meet locked with in frontage. FAR allowable is one right 2.5 building height for this area is three stories 35 feet. We are at four stories 38 feet 6 inches. The were exactly matched to the height of each building next to us. Our rear yard based on the BPD a recommendation. We actually brought that up. So we now are at 15 feet but 30 is required. And then parking we do have four spots but six would be required. We are in a flood hazard district. None of our utilities are in the bottom floor and none of there's no livable space when we parking at the ground level. This is slab on grade. So I can answer any questions that the board may have. I'm just curious because you did say that there was a lift. Yes, in the event of a flood. How would the handicapped unit be accessed? Yes, so there. So there is a lift through the front door. So it's right when you come in the mezzanine. So it's not in the rear of the building and then there is a second means just a stairs. But that would be the only access. And tell us about context because this is a 3F. So we have a 3F family district and doubling the number of the unit count. So tell us about the surrounding area. Or directly to the right of us as a building exactly the same height size that was approved a few years back across the street. And they're all four story in this immediate area next to us is four story. That's half the lot size. That is three bedrooms. Both of those buildings go back further than ours and the rare we've cut ours in across the street at 191. Power Street is a four story 32 unit apartment complex recently built 21 parking spaces. So there are a number of four stories and the idea was we're replacing the commercial structure to match the buildings on either side of ours. Okay. How are the plans, Mr Robinson? Plans are good. I think it's it is consistent with the street. I do have a question. The rear yard. So you mentioned the abutting property at 217 is much much deeper, which I can appreciate and see 21. However, is much less deep than what you're proposing. So and what is the rear? Is there a 21 rear that abuts this property? It's from the other street in the back that building goes back all the way to the property line. So how close is your rear to that building? It seems like they're almost touching if I'm not or you're extending beyond it actually. I'm looking at the site plan. Am I reading that correctly? Yeah, that plan right there. So zoom in. So. Adam Glassman's call is the architect. He might be better suited to. So you're overlapping the adjacent building to the rear is what I can see in this. I'm just going to make sure it just seems like it's extending. Yeah, God, that's a good point, Mr Robinson. Is Adam Glass on the call? I don't have any other questions about the plans. I think they're fairly straightforward in terms of the proposal, but. I just have a little bit deep in the. I've just been led into answer this question. The building we're talking about the rear. Hold on. Please put your name and address on the record. I'm Glassman, G.C.D. Architects to Warden, from Sweden, Cambridge. Did you hear the question? I did. So the rear of our building is over 15 feet from the rear law line. Is that the question you're asking? No, Mr Robinson, can you please? No, the question I was asking is there's a building to your rear left that you are actually encroaching and overlapping on. There's basically zero. Lap rear yard for them now effectively. And then you're over this top little quarter here is what I'm sort of. I think we touch it, Mr Robinson. I went to close that we don't overlap it. It's a staircase as a second of an egress on the back building. Got it. Okay. I know the question for me on the proposed. So what is the distance then between your building and that that building where there is the overlap? It's not a consistent dimension because the abouting buildings are not square. Probably starts at six inches apart at the front and tapers closer towards the rear, but at no point are we engaging the building? No, what I'm asking is that this building, this view that's on the screen. We can see that it's Eric Gould as NF. It's about five feet madam chair. I'm sorry. It's about five feet from from wall to wall. Okay. Any other questions from the board? Yeah, it just seems like this is packing an awful lot into a very, very tight space on the with respect to the parking. It has anybody reviewed the maneuverability. It seems like even the four spaces is going to be very tough to manage. And I also just on a practical question. How do four spaces get divided among six units? So these are sorry, I'll answer that Mr. These are all 18 by eight feet foot spaces. There's about 21 feet across the middle for them to back out. It's typical of every building and new building in this immediate area. So we believe there is plenty of room for new mobility. It is going to be a space that backs out, but you would drive in. It is a proposed rental building. So for those folks that would need them, we, you know, they would be offered. So again, it's not like a space is assigned to a unit. It could be. No, no, it would be what I meant to say is some units may not choir space. The one bedroom does not have a car. It would be, you know, first common terms of going up. So on this on this drawing, this is a thank you for bringing this up the drawing up. What is that in the bottom left corner? Those looks like one, two, three, four, five. What are those units that are those are bicycle spaces and the left. Okay. I'm, you know, you are much more confident about maneuverability than I am with those in there. But anyway, okay. Well, we were asked also by the community to add those to. And then we also Mr. Ehrlich increased our rear setback to so, you know, we shifted cars over to the side to make this work. I hope you don't, I hope none of the talents have SUVs. So let's go and see if anybody is here to speak either in support or in opposition of this proposal. Yeah, good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board and it's how we need to spend mayors office of neighborhood service. The applicant has been in touch with the butters to stay one and has addressed all concerns. I've heard central neighborhood association would it to support the project as well. Thank you. I'm, you know, I'm looking forward to hearing it. Yes. Hi. This is Jacob from the office of the council of the Edwards, wanted to go on record. The counselor is in support of this project. And when to get that down for the record, thank you. Madam Chair, we know from what is the support in the file. Do we have a raise hand Alex? Hi, yes. This is Alex Riemar and I live at 219 Paris Street and I just wanted to let you know that I'm in support of the 221 Paris Street construction. So this is the official address for this Mr. Dregos 219 correct. Okay, so, okay, got it. Okay, go ahead. Anybody else? I'm going to go ahead. Good morning, my name is Jim. I'm a board of mine. I'm a rice for the carpenters. You want to go and record and support of this project. We also have a hand raised by Bob sent a request to a museum. Can you state your name and address for the record please? Our Bob, we can't hear you. Hello. I can hear you. I can hear you. I'll Bob the vehicle Boston Transportation Department. And I would just like to address Mr. Earl Exconcern. If this was a public parking location, then I would be a little bit concerned. But seeing that it's a private and it's a residential parking plan, I can, I can understand and accept the parking design as proposed. Thank you. I have no additional raise hands. Mr. Ampton. Jeff Hampton, are you on? Hey, when the mute doesn't work. Thank you Madam Chair. We recommend it to know what our prejudice and the reasoning why and I know it looks like a broken tooth right now. But back in 2017, we recommended denial without prejudice at 221. 2018, we recommended denial without prejudice at 217. So our recommendations are based on consistency. We think that all three proposals were excessive. So that is the reasoning behind our third one here is broken tooth parcel. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, given all that information, may I have a motion please? I'll make a motion to approve a BPD bad BPD a designer. I'll second that motion. Ligris. All those in favor? Aye. Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Mr. Hampton, if you can figure out if the BPD a can figure out a way to pull that building back so that in fact, there is not there so that it eliminates that five feet between the existing building and this proposal. We'll do. Thank you that they have a clear view. The existing building continues to have a clear view. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. That was close. The last question, is, it can be reported to the Human Services Unit, currently planning to extend unit one to the local level, no change in the existing footprint, the. The species would be use this, Injusm storage, unit one would be around 1,300s with a셔feet rooms in the basement? Absolutely. So the idea would be to be able to have with this work from home era, to be able to have a unit that is conducive to that potentially and office space, I'll potentially put a larger family room down on the out to just have some more access and some separate space for people. So at this point we are not proposing any basement, excuse me, any bedrooms and no new kitchen bed or anything like that. Okay, and what's the floor to ceiling height in that space? For the plan would be to achieve water-sailing height of seven feet six inches. And how will utilities be kept separate from access separately from the unit? So the giant plan of that would be to have the utilities all within each of the units separately. Okay, how are the plans Mr. Robinson? As you're fine, it's a full walk out in the rear so it's not sort of subgrade there are some items on the front. Currently the electrical is showing in this light space so I do think that needs to be adjusted prior to construction, but no questions about the scope. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition of the Superpose? I'm Jessica Bortany-Madam, chair members of the board, Keel and Steve, what's going to Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. All of our letters were fired in our office housing of letters meeting on Tuesday, February 22nd. The meeting had no attendees and I received no letters of support or opposition. So at this time we would like to defer to the board. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I have a raised hand. I'm Casey. Hi, yes. Hi, yes. Okay. This is Casey Padden, the owner of the property. So just in the topic of a butter, I've been proactive with the. So hold on. I'm, you know, I don't necessarily need to hear from you, but thank you for being on. Anybody else to speak and offer an opinion either in support or in opposition? May I have a motion, please? I'll make a motion to approve. Did you see the BPD a recommendation with no building code relief? I don't think the BPD needs to be involved. They're only adding a couple increased window sizes. I think we can do approval with no building. No, okay. Is there a second? About a second out of the list. All those in favor? Hi. Hi. Any opposed? Motion carries. Thank you. I'll call the next case. BLA 1 2 8 5 1 4 5 7 7 45 Atlantic F. Violation of the article 44 section 7 specific designer climates due to display window area regulations. Article 44 section 6 roof additions and leather district due to mechanical equipment and screening. Article 32 section 4 G card applicability. Name and address for the record. I'm joining Madam Chair members of the board Chris Whittier for Oxford Properties with the business address of 125 Somershoor Street Boston Mass. I'm also joined by a few of my Oxford colleagues as well as John Ratigan our council from DLA Piper and Chris Leary the design principal from Jacobs. Madam Chair, I'm happy to provide a quick background on the proposed chain dependency or jump directly to the variances, whichever the board prefers. Yes, please tell us is this speculative R&D or is this do you have a tenant in place? This is indeed speculative. The building was previously leased to we work, which was a co working provider. They defaulted on their lease in 2021 and left the building leaving the building about 75% median. The decision was made to in order to stabilize the building quickly and as rapidly as possible to add the ability to have additional uses namely life science R&D to the building for the future. And are there any specifics? Is there a way that the building needs to be adjusted to accommodate this R&D use? Stacks or ventilation or anything like that? Yes, Madam Chair. The building mechanical systems are being completely overhauled within this building. So all of the infrastructure of the plumbing and electrical and the HVAC systems are being overhauled. What we're doing, which is a little bit different than maybe some of the other conversions that the board has seen is we are actually submerging the majority of this equipment within the 11th floor by repurposing what was previously tenant office base. And that was really done out of the necessity to limit any equipment that needed to be located on the rooftop. Our goal with this building has always been to effectuate the conversion with as minimal impact as possible to the surrounding neighborhood. So if it's on the 11th floor, is the 11th floor the top floor? It is the top previously occupied. Okay, got it. And is it venting out? Is it venting out towards any residential uses? So the exhaust equipment is located in the middle of the rooftop in the open air penthouse. It is surrounded by some residential uses, but I will just note that the rooftop of this building is approximately 150 feet. The surrounding leather district data, which is very consistent is around 100 feet. So there is a great degree of separation from the surrounding buildings and the proposed rooftop equipment. Okay. How are the plans, Mr Robinson? The plans are good. I did review all 293 of them. So thank you for sending them all in. They are adding additional equipment. They are also appears adding screening on the 11th floor that will I think help currently. It's not screened. I believe so I just want to confirm that's the case. I think it's fairly minimal in terms of the visual change on the outside. And no real questions on the proposed scope of the interior. Any questions from the board? Christian, do you want to go on the rocket? Christian, some not only boss and Rallad Trust, and we have both letters from the applicant. Thank you. Thank you. Is anybody here to speak and support our opposition of this proposal? Good morning, my name is Michelle Deboire. I'm from Council President Flings office. The councilor would like to go on recording support. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, my name is Chulan Huang from the Office of Neighborhood Services. This project received BPD a board approval on February 2nd. February 10th. They received no letters of opposition. This project received a letter of support from the I.G. Oxford has accepted the two ass in the letter for restricting lab use and keeping the self-street entrances active going forward. Those commitment are being memorialized in the cooperation agreement. That is in the process of finalizing finalizing with the BPD a legal department. There are numerous letters of support from residents and business. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I'm Mr. Board. My name is Regent Talley from Representative Aaron Michael. It's a office and he is in support of this project. Madam Chair, members of the board. This is a fall Simone. I'm in 111 Beach Street. I just this time for questions of coming gone. I just need to know whether you are in support or in opposition. And if you have either a tentative support or tentative opposition. I'll reserve in the comments and thank you. I'm in support of. Thank you. Minor go ahead. Thank you, Madame. I'm in charge of the board. I'm in charge of the board. Madam Chair, members of the board. Minor perace. Representing hundreds of carpenters living in the war. Consider boss want to go on the record support. And I have no additional way to stand at the moment. I just. Of the applicant, I have a question for you. What's difference between R&D and lab? I just research. Yes, there will be no production in this building. Just research. Okay, good. Just need to confirm that. Okay, given that information, may I have a motion, please? Madam Chair, do you want a separate motion on Chica? No. I think I can. Then I'll make a motion to approve. Second, all those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. All in the next case. Calling next case. B.O.A.12898235358 to 360. Out in the street. Violation of the article 68, section 8, Raryard and sufficient. Article 68, section 8, building height, excessive and fee. Name and address for the record. Madam Chair, I need to recuse myself on this. Thank you. The next panel is. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Ruzira, I think it's attached to the next case. Thank you. Oh, yeah, sorry. And then calling it, calling the companion case, B.O.A.1289831358 to 360. Out in the street. Violation. That was a building code. Violation 9th edition 7th, 780 CMR. U, A, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 6, 6, 7, 9, 11, 16, 11, 16, 19, 11, 18, 13, 14, 19, 11, 5, 5, 6, 18, 18, 16. May the execution date felt relaxed in every detail, like I was 10 days, but not every class passed just south. Despite getting the Sixth Hall and roll, or all the phrase Ricky was,ич, you will see Cyo to midnight and saver in the third. They wanted police officers to track performance aircraft. Jeans colors, Wirtschafts, wire, police, officers. with the recusal we are down to a five-member board. So you basically need all five of us in support of this proposal to carry. So you do have the opportunity to ask for an administrative deferral. And if you decide to proceed, if you can address the building code first. Certainly. We do wish to proceed, Madam Chair. Okay. Regarding the building code violation that is in the refusal letter. That was actually a decision by the design team rather than creating a headhouse on the top of the structure to access the two individual roof decks for each unit. Instead, there was a decision to put in the roof hatches which seemed to be something that the board had been kind of advising clients to try to do just further. So we can try to do just for the sake of it's not as such. Okay. I have a motion. Okay. May I have a motion, please? I'll second. Oh, those in favor. Hi. Hi. Any opposed? Motion carries. Can you now please get to the meat of the matter here on the road? Thank you. Thank you, Madam Chair. So there are two violations here. The two violations are that the building height is excessive and feet. The plans actually show that the roof deck is actually at 39 feet for inches at the base of the roof deck. But we did know that the rear yard in sufficiency that was a pre-existing not conformance that was going to be triggered by filing this proposal. So let's tell us about the dimensions of the roof deck and let's see if they're visible from the street. So that was actually one of the points I was going to get to Madam Chair. There are good renditions of the size of the roof deck that are located on a 1.5 right there on the proposal. We put in a couple of sun chairs just to show kind of what the size of this roof deck actually would appear in reality. And as far as disability from some. Sorry, so the dimensions. The dimensions of the roof deck are the width is 15 feet, 7 inches. That was actually minimized after our abouters meeting due to concerns from the community about the size of the roof deck. So we did make the width smaller by about roughly six feet. And the length of the roof deck is. I apologize. I spoke incorrectly. The width of each individual roof deck stayed at 10 feet 2 inches. The depth of the roof deck was minimized from 21.5 feet to 15.15 feet 7 inches. And that was after there was a butters meeting where some community members voiced some concerns. We also provided some renditions to show the lack of visibility from the street which is located on a 5.0. Okay. And one other item I would like to highlight to the board is if you actually view this site. As it sits within the neighborhood, there's actually parking lots located almost on all three sides of the building. Rockland Trust is a parking lot behind the building. Hold on. We'll just say that that's for now. Are you proposing a wall barrier between the two units? Between the two decks? Yes. And tell us about the height of that. I apologize. I spoke incorrectly. There is not going to be a wall barrier between the roof decks. I think that was just being shown to just show that there is going to be some. I don't. I believe the architect is actually on the call. It's Nick Landry. Okay. In the meantime, how are the plans, Mr Robinson? The plans are fine. I think that Athens Street is obviously a tight street and with the two driveway access points. I'm not sure exactly about the maneuverability into the units, but the plans are pretty straightforward. And it doesn't appear there's a wall shown except for in that one accent accent accent accent. And I believe that was just to give a rendition showing that each individual unit owner would have access to just one half of that roof deck. It is not a community roof deck that either unit can access the others. It will be a private roof deck utilized by each unit. When was this building built and did it come to this board? And were there any restrictions at that time about a roof deck? I know that this was brought before the board sometime ago. I'm not exactly sure when I believe it was in 2014. And then it was purchased by my client. He bought it in October of 2021. He is in the process right now at beginning construction. When he purchased it, the actual size of the lot is approximately 1,174 square feet. It was a very small parcel. And the idea after he purchased it was to try to create some type of outdoor space for the owners with everything that we know that's going on right now. Although it is subsiding, we were trying to give some way for the owners to have some outdoor space other than any porch would go beyond the property line madam chair. Basically this construction is is property line to property line. It provides a blank access to the street with the two garages. Tom any information on any restrictions that were put when this building was was approved? Hi, I'm James Tom. I'm looking at them right now. We have a few decisions on this one there with the FAA as well apparently. The one from 2015 has BPA design review. What I want to make sure is that if their neighborhood was in opposition at that time to roof deck and therefore it was eliminated from the plans that we are not kind of back dooring it now by approving a roof deck. Madam chair, we have a few decisions on the property but none of them are you know there's no prohibition for the board but our roof decks previously. I'm sorry. Madam chair in the in the full that we have in the file we have let us support and let us have opposition. Okay, let's just find out. I'm sorry Mr Robinson. Did I ask you how the plans were? Yes, plans are fine. Any questions from the board. Okay, is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition of this proposal? I'm chair members of the board. This is John Armono from the mayor's office and neighborhood services. We have received opposition both from a butters and from the community groups based on the roof deck. Being on a building they said would not be putting roof decks on in the building as well as concerns about the project. At this time we would like to defer to the board judgment on this matter. Good morning, Madam all the chair members of the board and I can let on from council president's flings office. The councilor would like to go on recurring opposition to this proposal. We have received numerous opposition letters and emails from director of the waters in this area who are now happy with the proposed roof decks. Thank you. Madam chair members of the board. May I put that it's the happy off the consular flirty. The councilor would like to say on the district consular neighborhood and go on record opposition. Thank you. Madam chair, I have no additional raise to answer. Okay, so. I just address one thing very quickly. There are two letters of support in the file from the two directive butters to this property. There were members at the butters meeting. Hold on, hold on, please. So given all that information may I have a motion, please. Omega motion for that out. Is there a second? Second. All those in favor. Any opposed? Motion carries. Sorry, it's been denied. Call the next. Next case. B.O.I.1286347. 16. Both of the old street. Violation to article 65 section 8 forbidden to family and a one family sub district. I have no. Code 65 section 9 insufficient rate. I set back. Out of the 65 section 41 off the parking requirements. Location parking located within. Require a front yard. Not allowed. Name an address. Is this a. Mr. Christopher. Are you on? Making them the panelists now. Okay. Is this a companion case to the doorchester out one? I thought I was going to ask it. I don't know. I can't tell. Yeah, it sounds like it is. Not even close together. Yeah. Okay. Got it. Okay. Mr. Christopher, can you please put your name and address on the record? Yes, madam. That's why I go up to the top. I will leave. Good morning. I'm down to him. It was the boy. My name is James Christopher. One of the principles of 686 architects with the business address of 1156 to achester, Adam and a concert. I'm here today. On behalf of Jennifer Sean husband. The on of 16. Both field street. What you can see here is a coin a lot on both fields, which wraps around both fields and, granted, a. The proposal is to construct a small rear addition, combining the existing lots. creating free-off street parking spaces. This proposal is being constructed out of medical necessity. Sean's parents are aging, and this construction will allow them to stay with their families and not end up in a nursing home. As a result of this project, we have some zoning violations. We carried out, we held in a butters meeting. The project was well received and supported by- I'm not sure if I'm... Can you please explain to us the project? We will hear about the process from the mayor's office. Tell us about the project itself, okay? Sure. The proposal is to construct a rare addition to the existing single family, creating a new unit. The addition will be approximately 20 by 18. On the first floor, we'll have a kitchen with a small living area, a bedroom, for the puzzle's parents. And then on the second floor, we would house a master bedroom for Sean and Jennifer. Okay, so for this proposed unit, that's going to be for the elders, is it handicapped accessible or proposed to be handicapped accessible? Yes, thank you. Tell us how? They'll be able to come into the unit at grade. We'll have an oversized at grade, shower and the living and bedroom are all at grade. Okay, and tell us about the parking. We have three parking spaces. We are showing one parking space in close proximity to the new front door mountain chair. Our intent there is that easy access in and out from medical appointments and such. But there will be additional room on the side if you go back to the site use plan. You can see here, we're proposing one, two, three, did with the, you can't see me, but the, no one parking space would be so that they could pull in and park adjacent to the front door. And then the balance of the site towards granted remains open. Okay, how are the plans, Mr. Robinson? Plans are good. No question on the proposed scope. I think just the question may be a little bit, it's showing a fairly large curb cut. I know they're moving it, but I think probably we should limit the size. It's called at a 14 feet clear, but it seems excessive or residential. But other than that, no real questions on the proposal. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak, either in support or in opposition at this proposal? Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. George Wayne with the Mayor's Office and Aput Services. Our office hosted an embudder's meeting for the proposal on the second. We heard support from neighbors in the Cedar Grove Civic Association to allow the applicants, elderly parents to live next door. At this time, we would like to defer to the board's judgment. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Joe McGatgren, City Council, Frank Baker's office, would like to go on reckoning support of the project. No partner, go ahead, his hand raised. Pop up. Yes, I bought the week off, bought some two-incipitation apartment. The three spaces don't work very well. Manoeuvrability with the two spaces across one another would be very difficult. And I'd like to recommend that the space is being reduced from three to two in order to provide safe and durability. Thank you. Madam Chair, it's Jeff. Mm-hmm. Thank you, Jeff Hansen, Senior Planning, zoning for the BPDA. Absently formal vote. The BPDA would like to go on record and support of this proposal. I have no additional raise to answer the moment. Okay. Mr. Regiro, would there have support and opposition? Because I do recall seeing some letters and I do recall seeing some letters. I just see an email from Bob, and that's it. I'd like to make a motion to approve. Is there a second? Second. All those in favor? Aye. Aye. Any opposed? Do we need design review or be- I think design review for the curb cut in the site plan would be good. I think just- With it. Would that be just BCD for the curb cut? I don't think we need to see it to be honest. Okay. Okay. Or just reduce the curb cut to a 10 foot curb cut. Okay. Okay. So Mr. Domingo, you got that? Okay. So who made the motion do you accept these? All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. All right. Calling next case. Calling next case, B-O-A-1-1-4-1-5-65. 1809-1813-B, do adjust their app. Violations of 65-68 use regulation, general business, we do business here a little bit. Article 65, section 42.2 conformity with an existing building line, a building alignment. Article 65, section 9, additional odd area, insufficient. Article 65, section 9, for area ratio, excessive. Article 65, section 9 building, head excessive and storage. Article 65, section 9 building, head excessive and fee. Article 65, section 9, unusable, space, insufficient. Article 65, section 9, side yard, sufficient. Article 65, section 9, area, Article 65, section 41, Austrian parking and loading, we're going. Article 65, section 42.3 traffic visibility across the corner. Article 65, section 38, specific design requirements. Name and address for the board. Good morning, Madam Chair and members of the board. My name is George Morancy. I'm an attorney with the business address, free 50 West Broadway in South Boston. I represent Mark Kennedy, who owns the building at 1809, 1813, Dorchester Avenue, where he has had his commercial painting business for many years. The building is currently used for storage of equipment and materials. Project architects are 686 architects, and James Christopher is here this morning. This is an article 80 small project, which has been approved by the D.R. and Board of Directors. The project site consists of 5,521 square feet at the corner of Dorchester Avenue in Banton Street, which is a dead end street. The proposed project is to demolish the existing single story concrete block building, and to construct a new five-story building containing 26 residential apartment units, including four IDP units. There will be nine one-bedroom units ranging from 626 to 645 square feet, and 17 two-bedroom units, with most being between 800 and 900 square feet, and two being 1,100 plus square feet. The site is within a multi-family residential, local service zoning sub-district under Article 65. In addition to Wall Street parking, there are violations cited for insufficient lot area for the number of dwelling units being proposed. Hold on, Mr. Marancy. Tell us what the parking is that is being provided for these 26 units. There's no parking. The site is actually within a five-minute walking distance to Ashmont MBTA station, making this a true TOD project. Because of this walkability factor, and in order to activate the ground floor of the building, the proposed project doesn't include accessory parking instead of a ground floor garage. The building will include approximately 2,200 square feet of retail space at grade, as well as numerous building amenities. We, in fact, look originally at having parking in this building, but because of the shallow depth of the loss, and because of the need to have a lobby, retail space to activate the ground floor, a bicycle storage, mail and package room, elevated core utility room, et cetera, on ground floor level, it would have been only room for parking spaces. Okay, so let's get to, you know, violations that we're concerned about is conformity with building alignment. Right, in addition. Hold on, traffic visibility across the corner, and context. How does this fit in with what's in proximity? Of course. As I said, in addition, of course, in the principal office of parking, there are also violations. Principal law area, for the size of the, the size of the law in the number of units, or FAR. This is a proposed 3.4 FAR. There's a building height violation. This building would be 48 feet to the roof of the fourth story, but there's a recessed fifth story. That fifth story roof would be 59 feet. There are also violations for an insufficient use of a open space. This is a frontside and rear yard setbacks. Although with respect to the frontside setbacks, I need to point out that this is a corner loss. Also, this is an MFR LS sub-district, where street wall continuity is actually a code requirement. So this is essentially a site with two moguls, both along Goethe-Storab and New, and along Vanton Street. This is also relevant with respect to the traffic visibility of the first corner. Vanton Street is a very little used street. It's a short street. It is again in street. There is a commercial use behind the building, and that's about it. So the BBDA opted for an auction to create a relatively strong street edge. There is some degree of setback on both FAR and New, and the corner. This is felt as adequate for the amount of, or the lack of traffic volume on Vanton Street. Okay, so let's just ask a couple more questions. No roof decks? How is open space being provided? There are no roof decks. The fifth floor of planning consists of two units, which are well setback from the center of the roof. Like we scroll back in the plan set, that would be visible. And there is a, in the rear of the site, it isn't a uniform setback. There's a greater setback on the right rear of the site, which is programmed open space for the building. James Christopher at the architect, James, could actually, as we keep scrolling back up to the first floor level. Okay, hold on. Let me find out. How are the plans, Mr. Robinson? The plans are fine. I do have a question. I'm trying to understand. So the fifth floor is setback. I'm seeing four units in my plan. Mr. Robinson, I think this is an older iteration of the plans. The most current set has two units on the top floor. Two units. And then, okay, wait, is the, is the. Massing the same because I'm, yes, they're, they're citing and massing the building remained. We don't know what happened here, but this, this, that, the essentially that the. And how this is moved into the middle of the building more is two units. But the end wall setback from the front of the Rochester app to the front walls, the same, but the building is moved in and we've eliminated two units. So, because there's no doors shown to the desk. Are those occupiable decks? Are they just outdoor space? No, they did wear occupiable. This, as I mentioned, this, Mr. Robinson, this, this iteration has changed. So the top floor is different now. All right. And my other. That's for the, for the BPA. Another question I'm just trying to. And maybe I should ask Mr. Hampton, the elevations don't show the pit floor. Draw. Is this like, see that there's a floor that's very lightly lined. It's ghosted here. Yes. Yeah, it was always. It's the same as the Robinson that it's ghosted. Well, which the baby wasn't, you know, maybe that's if it wasn't ghosted. Yeah. This is the first, no, it's ghosted or do they know it's there? They know. Yes. Now, the, the neighbors know it's the, the, that there's a more recent set of drawings that we shared. I don't know what happened yet, but it has renderings and such of the current building. James, this is George. Nancy. Can't I know that we. Hold on. Hold on. Mr. Marancy. Any questions from the board? I don't know. Is anybody here? I'm just here. I just got a question. Are we comfortable moving forward not having the updated plans or. The my question, which wasn't very clear, obviously, to Mr. Hampton, like, if this went through article 80, small project, there should be. Yeah, I'm. Like Mr. Christopher said, I don't know what happened with the. Transmitted all over to the ZBA, but I can assure you that we have done these plans and. You know, I don't think it's. Worth deferring. We're very comfortable with this. Just to make sure we all understand it's a five story. Twenty fixed unit mixed use building. With two commercial spaces totaling 2200 square feet. And there are four IDP units. Out with no parking. High level summary, right? That's correct. Okay. Is anybody here to speak in support? Are in opposition of this proposal? Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board, George Wynn with the mayor's office and the neighbor services. This proposal has been in the community process for the last two and a half years. Our office here, consistent opposition from butters regarding its height and density with far too few parking spots. We received a letter of opposition from St. Mark's area civic association with these concerns. We also received a letter of support from greater at the main street, praising the transformation of a light industrial parcel into active street scape and much needed housing. Of course, the DPD has also voted to approve the project. At this time, we would like to defer to the board's judgment. Thank you. So please. So I from the community point of view, it was a mixed bag. Is that what you're reporting, George? I would say with a butters, it's been pretty consistent in terms of opposition. And then with main street, that's where the support comes in, which main street. Okay. We have a fair amount of letters of opposition. Okay. We have a letter of support from Main Street. Okay. So let's go ahead. Anybody else to speak either in support or in opposition? Morning, Madam Chair. I'm Gordon Dustin Gardner. I'm at City Councilor Wynn's office. We'd like to go in record in opposition, setting some of the comments that the mayor's office reported the height, the lack of parking and the opposition from director butters. I have a few raised hands. That would send me. Can you say to me, Madam? Just for the record please. My name is Sydney Miller. I live at 14 Edwin Street. I'm in a butter. I live like five doors up from Dorchester Avenue. This is a crazy proposal. At five stories, it's almost double the height of the average. Most buildings in the area are one to three stories high. And there's no parking provided at all. Where do we think the estimated 40 vehicles are likely to park? I'll tell you where they're going to park. They're going to park. Hold on. Hold on. So you're in opposition because of density and lack of parking. Correct. And high. And also. Okay. Good. Anybody else? Okay. Doug and Jim go ahead. Yes, this is Douglas Shaheen. I'm in 21 Chevrolet, George. Which is 700 feet from the project. But it is Michael Fallen who will be speaking. He is here with me. He didn't have a computer. So he's here at my house. This is Michael Fallen. Madam chair members of the board. My name is Mike. I'm vice president of the city. Maximic Association chair. I'm the same. I'm the rest of the committee. I live on the next block over about 500 feet of the proposal. I am in strong opposition to this proposal. This proposal can be for the same absent association meeting last Tuesday. A well and turns it meeting after the presentation. There was a discussion. No one spoken favor after this proposal. And when the vote was taken only one person voted in favor of this. Thank you. And please, everybody who's spoken, put your hands down. Hey, and, um, hey, yeah. Come on, go ahead. Yes, hi. Uh, good morning. Um, I'm talking on behalf of my husband, Joseph Hunt and I, we are living in 59 Edwin Street. And, um, I want to stay very strongly our opposition to this project. It's crazy to be having a place that should have 41 spaces and has zero. And as other people have spoken about the parking situation, we are nearly 80 years old. We're literally afraid to leave our house at this time because walking is hazardous in the winter. And we don't dare drive anywhere because you can't find parking anywhere near our home. Okay. Thank you. One additional thing that I must say is that this, um, development is being supported or presented as a transit oriented development or TOD. And I'd like to say that is a false premise because TOD cannot start with developments that are called TOD just because they don't provide parking. TOD has to start by building an environment that does not need cars. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Mr. Nasr, anybody else? Yes. Yes. Morgan, go ahead. Can you state your name and address for the rectif please? Yes, my name is Dan Smoregan. I live at 19 Edwin Street. I, um, strongly opposed this proposition. Certainly the parking is a huge issue. All those people within the building will be looking for parking on a street that's already congested and has parking. Thank you. Thank you. As an answer the, um, the amount of units, um, and it being a five-story unit, um, I objected that to. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. I have one additional way to change. I'm going to request to unmute you. Go ahead. Hey, I'm Jeane Desira. I'm the executive director of Greater Ashmonton Street. So we did submit a letter of support in, in, um, in support of the project, um, because of its focus on commercial, commercial revitalization, um, and having space on the first floor as well as, um, the push towards being transit center. So thank you. Thank you. Our full comments are in our letter. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Um, so what is the way to check if Mr. Nasr, are we good? Okay. Okay. Um, I have a motion. I'll make a motion to approve a repeated interview. Is there a second? I'll second the motion. I'll second the motion. All those in favor? All right. I, any opposed? I'm opposed. Who's opposed? Um, Mark, Mark, Mark, Mark. I'm sure. I'm sure. Sorry. So there's two oppositions, uh, given that we have a six member board. Um, it's been denied. I'm sure we want to have a, is there the board wanted their vote on a denial without prejudice or? No, it's been denied. Thank you. Um, because that is, that is how, um, what happens at this, when this happens. Because I think denial without prejudice means that this board is uninterested in seeing a five-story 2016 at mixed use building. Um, but, but we, we can see something different when, um, within that period of time. Um, so can we move to the, um, um, Mr. Rob? It's, uh, it's after 1030. I like to call for the 1030. Do you have the, do you have the, uh, deferrals or withdrawal for 1030? And just, just, just let me remind everybody this is a six member board. And for approval, you need five members in support. So if you need an administrative deferral, please let us know. Yes. Uh, one, I have two, Mr. Agera at 167 Maverick Street was the first calling case, BOA 1-6-8-6-3-6-167 Maverick Street. Uh, thank you, Madam Chair, members of the board and Attorney Jeff Trego with Trego and Tuscana with an address of the level beacon street. Um, we are seeking a deferral. We did receive a letter from Parks Department on Friday, uh, with a number of asks and concerns. So we want to work with them in the Greenway Council to address some of those issues. Thanks, Chairman. I'm going to re-cuse and abstain on this vote. I'd like to make a motion for God. So I'll second that motion, Eric. All those in favor. Any of all motion carries? Mr. Dre, how much time do you need? Uh, well, Mr. Ciro, please find a date when Mr. Ligris is not sitting. I don't have that. And yeah, I don't know. I mean, okay. I don't know the answer to that question. Jeff, how long do you need? Relatively quick. Okay. Um, the board. We do. You want April 26th, though, May 10th? No, no, no, no, let's go into May 10th. May 10th? Okay. The poster is off on May 10th. The poster is not here. I may 10th. That's work. Excellent. Excellent. So we'll see you at May 10th at 1130. I have another one, too, Mr. Chair. Okay. But not one of the 20 Hinkley Street, board 13. Calling case BOA 125 8638 20 Hinkley Street. Thank you, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Attorney Jeff Trago, with Draco and Tuscana with an address of 11 Beacon Street. We are seeking an administrative deferral. We submitted updated plans and they need to be finalized reviewed and we believe advertised for new violation. May 10th, well, perfect. Make a motion for the problem. Is there a second? Second, Eric. All those in favor? Aye. Aye. Any post? The date, please? May 10th. May 10th at 1130. Okay. Going back to the last case of 930. Are there any more deferrals or draws for 1030? Okay. Going back to the last 930 case, BOA 1282495 225 South Hinkley Street. Violations article 90 Section 7, conditional cannabis establishment. Amen. I just have a record. Morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Attorney Derek Small, the Business Adjustment of adoption role. For me today, I'm Mario Signore, and Duane Osborn, who are the owners and operators of the Green Flash LLC, and our security consultant is Paul Zambia, who is also on the call. Madam Chair, we're here today seeking to change the legal argument. To include cannabis delivery service and wholesale distribution of cannabis products. Madam Chair, the zoning sub district is the new market industrial commercial neighborhood district, and we are seeking a conditional use permit to allow for that. I will allow Mario and Duane to answer any questions that you may have regarding the operations. Councillor, can you please tell us if this is in proximity of a school or in proximity of another establishment? No, it is not. We don't have any buffer zone conflicts, Madam Chair. Even with any proposed uses of, let's see, school uses being proposed for the neighborhood? Not at all yet. Okay, excellent. Okay. Can you please tell us then Mr. Signore and the two? Is can you please tell us about how this is going to work? How many people do you intend to hire? The breakdown of wholesale and delivery, and will there be any, what are the hours of operation, things like that that we need to know to understand how this is going to work? Absolutely. I'd love to. So this is a wholesale delivery operation. There are absolutely no public components to this. There are no registers, no customers, or any people from the public coming to this facility at any time. There will be no signage, no markings, no symbols on any of our buildings or our delivery vehicles, our delivery vehicles, and the non-descript passenger cars customized for security with GPS tracking and cameras, and a secure lock box in them. They'll look just like most of the other cars on the road in the city. They're designed to blend in, as I said, non-descript. Products will be delivered to the building, wholesale, and a secure car court that's taking up an area where there's two existing lanes for large trucks to make deliveries at a loading dock. Products will then come in through the secure car court. They will go into a sali court that goes into a secured material lift that goes straight from the loading dock right up to our vault on the third floor. So at no time with the public of any access to products or during loading, unloading, or delivery, we initially believe we'll have some work between five to six vehicles. We'll have secure parking for six vehicles plus offside parking for another 10 employees, but we really plan on only having four or five other employees on site at the time. It's on the third floor. It's secure. We have an extensive security plan of four secure points of entry to get into the building. And then once we get into the third floor after four security points, there's two secure walls to get to our vault to the product. It's basically a fortress in the sky, so it's off the street. It's out of the way. No one's going to know where they're except for employees and people making deliveries. So just to confirm for the record, who will you be delivering to? Will you be delivering to other businesses? Or will you be delivering to homes? We'll be delivering directly to homes. Okay. Just to clarify that too, we're not allowed to deliver to any government housing or dorms. Only private residences where after people have gone online and filled out forms and shown up their identification to prove that they're 21 years old age. And we see that there are residents that were legally allowed to deliver to. When we then go with two drivers in each vehicle, we're both on camera and each have body cameras on them. They will on camera check the ID of the customer to make sure that's who it is. They are legally of age allowed to buy the products. At that point, we will get back in the car and leave. So you know, a lot of students do live in private residences. So you may not be delivering to dorms, but you may be delivering to students. Is there any policy on that? If a student is 21 years of age and they're legally allowed to buy marijuana and they live in a private residence, they're allowed to receive delivered cannabis. But if they're under age, they would not be allowed to. Okay. And tell us about your hiring practices for your drivers. Sure. Do you want to talk about the poor? All right. So we have a pretty extensive hiring process. We're working with the nonprofit group here in Boston, Hope Big Coat Project. We'll be working with them to help people who have quarries who may have had a small fight for possession of a small amount of marijuana is prevented them from getting working jobs with, you know, getting skilled jobs where they can make money and have affordable wages. So we're working with them to help expand your records and take people with quarries with the priority for people, for people from the neighborhood, preferably for marginalized areas of Boston. We're within walking distance. It's nine different buses and shuttles. We're right next to two commuter rails and the red line. So people who don't have vehicles can easily walk or take a bus, shuttle, or train, or commuter rail to our location. So we're opening it up to also the ADA. We have a lot of opportunities for people from the city that have quarries, preferably from marginalized areas. People have been affected by the war on drugs. So a couple of questions for you. Who did you say, Big Hope? Who is Big Hope? Big Hope is a 501C here in Boston. They formed to help people who have quarries and have expungible criminal records. They're also looking to help people get jobs with livable wages. People who have been prison or okay, sorry. Thank you. How are the plans, Mr. Robinson? Pretty straightforward and they appear to be as the proponents indicating there seems to be a secure area with a dedicated, for the DOM elevator to move up the product from the learning doctor. So no real questions on the proposed layout. Any questions from the board? Yeah, I have two questions. What is the current use of the space? It's located in industrial building. It was used for storage and for heavy equipment like gym equipment. There's a lot of weights. They use the prior tenants, uses basically a fitness gym. So there's a lot of big heavy equipment and weight equipment and cardio equipment up there now. Okay, and my second question is, are the drivers that you intend to hire, will they be employees of the organization or are hiring hiring members and to be in a contract? They'll be employees of green flats. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak and support or an opposition of this proposal? Good morning, Madam Chair and Members of the board. This is Jason Gamp, and there's Office of Neighborhood Services. And a button's meeting was held for this proposal on December 20th in which they answered all the questions and concerns of the community. There was a lot of support on the meeting. A lot of folks who are here today to testify, so I will speak specifically for them. The only issue that was raised, the applicant team, was the use of the elevator by another proponent in the building. They just wanted to clarify on how folks would be able to access the third floor and how they would be able to get onto the second floor as well. But we'll be deferring to the expertise of the board on this matter. Thank you. Madam Chair, Members of the board, Joe McGeck, Red City Council, Frank Baker's Office, would like to go on recognition for like. Can I hear from Ben Murphy, please? Sure. Okay. Robin, I sent a request to Emily. Hi, can you hear me? Yes, please go, Ben. Hi, my name is Ben Murphy from the New Market Business Improvement District. Madam Chair and Members of the board, Greenflash, and its owners have been excellent neighbors and community partners since long before this proposal and have outdone themselves with their community engagement this time. So for that reason, I would like to go on record as strongly in support of their proposal. Thank you. So Ben, I'm not a heart of big hope. Who is big hope? I'm personally not familiar with big hope. But we have a lot of faith in Greenflash's ability to vet their partners and choose suitable partners for this endeavor. Thank you. So, and everybody who's spoken, please put your hands down and I'd like to hear from four more people, Ms. Ambassador. Sure, yeah. A book with Black Market Museum. Can you state your name and address the marketplace? Sure. Good morning, Madam Chair and Board. My name is Kai Garant. I address 2136 Washington Street. I am a long time rocks very residents. I'm a newbie and square business owner and the founder of John Elliott Square Neighborhood Association here in support of Greenflash's project Duane Osborne and Mario Signori. Have a project that's going to help to bring wealth, creation opportunities for equity applicants and jobs who are very residents who have been the person in fact the Erin Supreme. Thank you. Ms. Ambassador. Okay, yeah, I have Alice. Second. Call that can you state your name and address for the record for the Alice? I sent a request on you. Can you hear us? Can you hear me? Yeah, can hear you now. Can we state your name and address for the record? Alice Ignori. 35 Wilson, like you didn't need him. I'm a newbie and I'm a newbie and I'm a newbie and I'm a newbie and I'm a newbie. 25 Southampton. And I have been watching and observing. Thank you. I'd like to hear from in a butter. All right. Deborah. Shannon. I sent a request on New York. Are you a director butter? I'm a reenflash delivery. Okay. Go ahead. Put your name and address on the record. It's Deborah. And to make a claim as a suit. And again, I'm here to call to support re-life flash delivery. Thank you. Thank you. I'd like everybody. The last person, a couple of people. I'd like to have hands raised only if you are a director butter. Or work are really close and proximity to this proposal. Otherwise, please put your hand down. Okay, Mr. Mazder, a couple more people, please. And that's it. All right. So Steven, I sent a request on you, you. You're a director butter. Okay. I'll go the way I will. Well, justice. You've been unmuted. I sent a request on you. I'm sorry. Can you stage your name and address for the record, please? All right. So this is both justice. And that's not how that's called. See those like anybody can speak on this. And I want to support re-flash delivery. Can't make up your rules the way you want to. Okay. You might have missed our preamble, but you know, we do want to deal from a butters who will be impacted. I'm assuming you're in support then. Of course. I'm in support of being class delivered. Thank you. Okay. I think we've covered quite a number of people. So let's move to a decision. Motion to approve. Is this with our usual proviso to this? Is there a second? Yeah, second. I'm going to go to the first case of 1030, but before I do that, are there any deferrals or withdrawals of 1030? Madam chair, Mr. Secretary, I do have one. That's possible. Name and address. I'll go to the high street. Case B.O.A.122-419-4200-830. I'm going to go to the first case of 1030, but before I do that, are there any deferrals or withdrawals of 1030? Madam Chair, Mr. Secretary, I do have one. That's possible. Name and address. Case B.O.A.122-419-4200-830. High street. Name and address for the record. Mr. Secretary, this is Mike Ross, attorney at Prince Lowell. We are due to the six-member board requesting an administrative deferral. May I have a motion, please? Motion, please. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? The date, please? April 26th, Councilor. That would be great, Mr. Secretary. Are we expecting a full board then? A second. Go open now. I'm going to go back. I'm going to go back. We're going to go back. I'm not sure whether close to it's going to be here or not there. Close to it, are you going to be here? I'll need to check. Hold on a second. April 26th. That is email. You can run it at my time. I'm going to go back. I'm going to go back. I'm going to go back. There you go. He's not going to be here on the 26th. Okay. More than 10. We're due. So we have. May 24th. Looks like this. Councilor. Thank you very much. Any good members of the board? Okay. Calling. First case of 1030. B-O-A. One two eight. Three two two eight. Two 27 to 37. Annelto Street. Violet. Seven section full. Other protective. Conditions to remove. We're going to go back. We're going to go back. We're going to go back. Anyone on for a handle properties? We move on to the next project. Okay. Calling. Next case. B-O-A. One three zero. Calling. Next case. Okay. Okay. That was. I'll just see a raised hand here. John Hamill. Okay. One second. John, Jessica, either of you. Hi. I'm sorry. Can you hear me now? Yes. There's a little bit of an echo. I'm not sure if you have that as well. We can hear that. Hi. You have a 27 handle one. Yes. So this is John Hamill with Hamill properties. I think someone else might have a speaker on so I'm here. I'm going to echo. So that's better. Thank you. John Hamill with Hamill properties. My address is 10 lookout. Terrace Linfield, Massachusetts. So I'm here requesting. I'm the property owner. Not familiar with the process. Sales business is that's leaving and what's being proposed. Yes. There are hours. Operation autocount. Yes. And as they understand, specifically what take out means of the city of Boston. Yes. So, And I do believe the operator may be on. Can speak to it. I think I can as well. That's fine. So this property, 27th-Handover Street, has two restaurants on the location. The second restaurant is a small takeout restaurant. It previously was Cobblestone's restaurant. Unfortunately, it went out of business at the beginning of COVID. So what is the new proposed restaurant? And the new proposed restaurant similarly is a small takeout restaurant. It's a Cambodian-style sandwich shop. And it's ours of operations, 9 AM to 11 PM. And it's not just a few of the previous operations in terms of... And again, what is the name of the restaurant? It's spelled S-U-A-S-D-A-Y. And do they have experience with takeout in the city of Boston? Yes, they have a number of other restaurants in Boston. I think it's three or four restaurants. Well, in Boston and Cambridge, I think it's maybe two of them in Boston. Which ones are they in Boston? So I actually did include Jessica as a panelist, which could we let her join? I should have answered, but I knew that she was available. Oh, great, Jessica. How did you mind? She's... I'm not sure if she's... You may have the unmute Jessica. Hi. I can speak regarding the operations. So, like Dawn mentioned earlier, we are looking to do from 9 AM to 11 PM. So please tell us which other operations you have in the city of Boston? Yes, so I've worked with Levertsy, she's a Pokeby Lever. And then we also have a Levertsy Congress. So I'm familiar with takeout specifically the city of Boston. Thank you. Thank you. How are the plans, Mr. Robinson? Plans are fine. No questions. No changes. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition of this proposal? Yes. Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board. I'm Sierra Temeca with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This proposal has two levels of support. They completed their community process. One letter from the North End Waterfront Residents Association. And the other from the North End Waterfront Neighborhood Council. Our office will take to the board's judgment at this time. Thank you. I have no... You have any letters? Yes. Yes, we have the letters from both North End Waterfront Neighborhood Groups in support. Please have a motion, please. Motion to be approved for this applicant only with the usual takeout language. Second, Levertsy. Okay, all those in favor? Sorry. So I'm sorry, the petition was actually to remove the language, right? No, we know what it is, but we are updating the language to this applicant. Okay, probably. I just clarify. Excuse me. Yes. So there's a motion on the table. Was there a second? I did second that motion. All those in favor? Any opposed? Motion carries. You're all set. And please, please, the next case. Can I ask a question? No. No. You being charged with the office later. Let's move on. The next case. BLA 1-300-477-142-Saint-Patholstree. Violations are article 41-5, establishment of. Protected areas. Okay. 41-5-248-Ratio is excessive. 41-6 rooftop additions and protected areas. I will. 41-section 18.5. Small project review. Amen. Madam Chair. Madam Chair, I'm going to recuse myself in this matter. This is a note to the applicant. We started off with a six member board. We're down to a five member board. So that means that every one of us, you need every one of us support to. To have this project go ahead. You may request an administrative deferral for a day when we have a full of board. It's entirely up to you. What is your desire? We'll proceed, Madam Chair. Okay. Miss LaCasse, please be succinct in your presentation and tell us what's being proposed. Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board. Mark LaCasse, LaCasse last 75 Arlington Street in Boston. I'm going to ask for the applicant, Dr. Abhe Betty, who is the owner occupant of the top floor unit at 142 St. Patel Street. His proposal is to add a partial fourth floor on the top of the building to create 650 square feet of additional living area for his unit so he can stay in place. Largely designing violations that Mr. Secretary of Red into the record relate to design review. We have to submit to the BPDA for the same design review as would be done under a small project review. And also the rooftop addition in a protection area as this is the St. Patel architectural conservation district requires a conditional use and review by the St. Patel architectural district commission. And I miss LaCasse. Let me ask you what has this address been before this board before? No, it has not. It has not. Okay. How are the plans, Mr. Robinson? Plans are good. Very straightforward. I think it's thoughtfully set back. No questions on the proposal. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak either in support or an opposition of this proposal? Good morning, Madam Chairman. I'm very sorry. Molly Gertrude from the mayor's office of the neighborhood services. At this time, our office would like to defer to the George the boards, the documents are we held the butter's meeting on February 2nd. Neighbors are done. It was mainly support. There was concern from one neighbor. I believe the applicant worked with them. I have received one letter in support of this project from the other tenants living in 142 St. Patel Street. Thank you. Madam Chair, I have no right hand at the moment. May I have a motion, please? I'll make a motion to approve. It sounds like there's already going to be a BPA review anyways. Right. Is there a second? All those in Trabor? Any opposed? Motion carries. Thank you so much. It's now 1125. We will take a 10 minute break and resume at 1135. Okay. Recording stopped. You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You That's what I am saying. Our procошor is yours. Ammoided matter, tap. Just a reminder And if you're connected by phone, please press star nine to raise and lower your hand. You must press star six to unmute yourself. Today we have a six-member board which means that you will need five members to be in support of your project for it to carry. So this is an opportunity for anybody here who to request an administrative deferral. Mr. Ruggiero? It is now after 11.30 so just briefly for the 11.30 cases. Are there any deferrals or withdrawals? 5.66 E.S. Third Street calling B.O.A.127-939-0566 E.S. D'Ard Street. Thank you Madam Chair and Members of the board. We have Jeff Drago with Drago and Tuscantina with the Business Address of 11 Beacon Street. We are seeking a deferral for 5.66 E.S. Third. Plans were submitted. They're still under review and we believe another. It has to be re-advertised. May I have a motion please? Motion for deferral. Is there a second? All second, Eric. All those, Traver? Aye. Aye. Any opposed? The date please? It needs to be re-added. May 10. Sure. Can we go later on maybe to June? Do you want to go to June? Okay. Yeah. June 7th. June 7th at 11.30. See you then. Thank you. Mr. Rgero, 85-Mount Pleasant Avenue. Calling B.O.A.128-530-85-Mount Pleasant. Good morning Madam Chair and Members of the board. Mark LeCasse, LeCasse La 75-Arlington Street in Boston. Seeking a deferral as the project has gone undergone another reduction in size, which will require another a better meeting and further community review process. So we're seeking a deferral. Is there a second? Thank you. All those in favor? Aye. Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. The date please? June 7th. June 7th at 11.30. Thank you so much. I'm Mr. Rgero, 60 Stanley Street in Doach, S.A. B.O.A.116627-60 Stanley Street. We have good morning Madam Chair and Members of the board. Attorney John Pogini on behalf of the applicant. 10th Flood Throw of Breach Reads to Business Address. And we're seeking a deferral. The plans went back into ISD. There was a little bit of confusion. So we just got them Thursday night and we have to eliminate one of the violations. And otherwise we have to be out of the press. And this is your second deferral? Before the plan to plot up an ISD, in this time I believe it was some confusion, but the standard year of whether they... Okay, so let's make sure that you have a date far enough into the future, so we can just bring closure to this. Okay. May I have a motion please? Motion, I defer. You start your... Sir, you're looking at all those in favor? Aye. Aye. Any opposed? The date please? June 23. Okay. Anything else? Mr. Egero, 157 West Springfield Street. BOA, 1, 2, 3, 7, 0, 1, 4, 157 West Springfield Street. I'll be recusing myself. This is Aaron. May I have a motion? I'm... Madam Chair, I put my name in a question. Yep, go ahead. Sorry. George Moran, CM, the Attorney for Business Address, 350 West Broadway. Madam Chair, we don't have the no-harmoned letter, but we should have that imminently. I know there was a date, date, discussed earlier. We would certainly be ready for that if that's still available. May I have a motion please? Opposed, please. Motion, I defer. Thank you. Second, all those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Please. We have April 26th and May 10th. Let's look for a date where, because Eric is recusing, where we will have a full aboard. If that's possible. I don't know. 10th and we're recording. Sorry. Oh. Eric, when will you not be sitting? Actually, I was going to... Not to get into the business. So, I was going to see if we could switch my days with Hansi. So, I have to go back and look at my dates, unfortunately. Okay, so this is just... That's just... May 10th. May 10th. I think May 10th should work. May 10th at 117. Okay. Thank you. When I do have one more, I'm sorry, it's 8 in the street. BOI-1249024. George, for answering the business address of 350 West cargo and cell costs. And this one, the plans, simply have not been reviewed yet by ISD. May I have a motion? Motion to the sir. Is there a second? Second. All those in favor? Aye. Hi. Can you impose the date, please? May 24th. Thank you. May 24th at 1130. Any other take-us? Okay. We're 75 West Milton, right? Yes. Call in case BOI-1269870. 75R-75BR West Milton Street. Name and address for the right. I don't know. Any more? Call in. Only now. I have a great 10 a.m. one second. Nicole. Nicole. Thank you. Thank you. And Nicole, are you on for this? Change and you say. Thank you. Good evening for the record. My name is Nicole Dunfee. I'm a subject of high point engineering representing the applicant. For the property at 75R West Milton Street. A property is owned by Bernard and Joanne Coleman. The proposal is to demolish the existing two-story single-family home. And the detached one car garage and replace it with three two-story. Townhouse units with garage parking underneath and one garage space. So each unit would have two parking spaces. Sorry to interrupt. It has this particular address been before this board before. Not that I'm aware of. No. Okay. So is this building at the rear of another building? It is. So if off of West Milton Street, there's a little cap. So 77 West Milton Street actually affects the street. And then 75 is behind that adjacent to the commercial property identified as 65 spray. The old rail trail train rail yard. And let me just ask you what is the lock area for this entire 75 locked? So the entire lock area for this lock is 11,146 square feet. And this is proposed to be part of the building currently at 75. It's not supposed to be a separate lock. It's not supposed to be a separate lock. The existing building would be demolished and it would be replaced with the proposal you see in front of you. Do you have a site plan for all this because I'm trying to understand really what is happening on the entire lock? Well, there'll be these three units plus another unit. No. Just the three units. We did some bit of site plan. I don't know if it's a bottom. There's a separate file that's a site plan, Madam Ambassador. Because if it's an R address that is kind of triggers something for us that might be a building behind a building. I have another file that's separate that has a site plan. I don't know. Yeah, there was, there was this architectural plan. There was also a narrative and then the site plan with the existing conditions. Yes, there are four files or four, at least for me, four files. So the site plan, I'll explain it to you a little bit. It's a rectangular shape lot adjacent to at this end, 77 West Milton Street. The existing structure would be removed. The existing garage would be removed. We proposed the three townhouse units that you see before you. With a 20 foot wide cave driveway on the north side of the property. The rear of the property would face the commercial development over at 65 spray street. Sorry, I'm, I guess a lot. I'm a visual person. I know. I'm just having a hard time understanding this. And we submitted everything. I'm not sure why it's not in the package. So Eric, you explain this to us because we just, you know how we operate about buildings behind buildings. Yeah, so can you go ahead? I honestly, I'm not exactly sure if I understand that are part of it, I guess. Because I think there's only a single family on the site now. If I'm wrong. And so I don't know if I really understand where that arc comes from. I understand that they're demolishing it. So there will be no buildings on the site. And then they're going to propose to build this three family sort of complex attached on the site with a driveway on the one of the sides. Okay, so let me understand is if we're standing at the West Milton Street. Is this North elevation what we would be looking at? We're looking at the West elevation. So it's so the short side is against the street. And the long side is runs the length. It's a very deep lot that's on West Milton on I'll say kind of it's really east, but I'm sorry West, but the backside is runs up against the railroad track. That's correct. So this is as you see here West Milton Street. When I'm here, there's a little alley that comes off of West Milton Street to access the rear property and the property across the street identified as 71. Got it. Okay, this is what I was looking for. Okay. And so three families parking. Okay, access through West Milton Street. How are the plans, Mr. Robinson? The plans are fine. I don't have a problem with the plans. I mean, I think the proposed sort of use is a little odd for this. There seems to be a collection of singles. Running the length of the street. There is some multi attach kind of across the streets. I maybe that's what they're kind of taking a cue from, but it seems like there's also a three family dwelling directly across the street at 1773. So I think the thing we're trying to understand is that our townhouses part of the design concepts in the area because clearly this is a 1,000,000 district. So, you know, this would be, you know, so we just need to understand how this works as townhouses versus, you know, a more typical three family dwelling. And there's the other are some time houses across the street and they are in the 2,000,000 zone, but because the, the zone line runs down the street between the two lots. So you see. Okay. So these are then proposed to be mirror measures of what's across West Milton Street right there. Yeah, the similar. That being the feel of a single family. Okay. Any questions from the board? Yeah, I have a question for Mr Robinson. I mean, the way that this is designed, it's essentially a sideways orientation. Yeah, that's. Yes, Mr. Erler. I think that that's my, I think I guess there are some other examples on the street. I see that. So that, so just to continue so that West elevation, the bottom right of what we're looking at now, that's what you see from the street. I actually think it's the East. Okay. It's a little hard to, I think they have a mislabel to be honest. Just I'm looking at the orientation of a porches and things. So it's one of those out. It's the short elevation of the say on the street. It does not look like a great elevation. Okay. So. So that seems to me kind of odd. Okay. So let me, let me just help you out. Um, man was here on behalf of the applicant. Um, I don't know. Have you seen the BPD a recommendation? I do have just the denial letter from which brought us to the ZBA. Okay. So, um, it sounds like the BPD also has issues with this proposal. They're recommending denial without prejudice because of excessive lot coverage in sufficient setbacks and a lot of other things. So you may want to request the deferral and come back with a plan that's as as you can tell from our questions. Um, we're just having kind of a hard time with this. So you may want to on behalf of your client requested a deferral and come back with us at a later date after you've re looked at the decision, etc. Okay. If you need a couple of minutes to confer with your clients, we can go ahead with our next case and then come back to you. Okay. Now, just a quick comment, which is if they do come back that they should be thinking about orienting the design toward the street because that's what people will see from the from the street. Yeah. You actually cannot see this line. Let's just, let's just keep it on the table here on the deferral. Do you need a couple of minutes to check in with your clients or should we just go ahead with the decision on this? We'll go ahead with a deferral and we have a motion. Motion to deferred. Is there a second? All second. All those in favor. I have any opposed? Carries. Let's look at a date in June. June 21st. June 21st at 1130. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Calling. Next case. BOA. 108. One of zero. Zero. One five. Two. 43. Road to the street. Violation. Out of 60. Section 9. 40. Variation. It's excessive. Out of 60. Section 9. Very sufficient. Out of 60. Section 9. Unusable. Unusable. Open space. Out of 60. Section 8. You've been in three families. About 1,000. The name and address for the record. Madam chair, members of the board, my name is Kyle Smith. Of state. Terror law business address three five nine. Newbury street in Beck Bay. Please tell us what you're proposing to do. Madam chair, members of the board. We have a pre-existing two family with livable square footage in the basement level, first floor, second and attic. We're proposing to expand the livable square footage in the basement. expand the local square footage in the attic by way of the inclusion of dormers and essentially take a internal stairwell and put it to the rear which triggers our rear yard insufficiency and convert from a two family to a three with a single unit located at the basement level of about 1200 square feet a unit located on the first floor approximately 1365 square feet and then a third unit comprised of the third floor in the attic space of approximately 1980 square feet and what is the zoning district here we are a two F 4000 madam chair and how large is the lot area the area madam chair is a 51 hundred square feet we're otherwise not changing the building envelope in any way except for the external stairwell and the roof dormers well that's significant so tell us so this use is a forbidden use in this district so and it looks to me anyway that there is fair use of the building but tell us about that basement use and how that is going to be what's the floor to ceiling height what's the floor to sill height will the utilities be separate and we notice as bedroom space in that basement so kind of talk all that we're with that please certainly I also have the owner who's in self-hazard CSL licenses project manager maybe answer about ceiling to floor heights but there is intended to be two full means of egress both out of unit and accessible through the common area you see the basement portion of plans there is upgrading to for sprinkler and smoke compliance the building will become fully sprinkler and mechanicals are also an portion of that front portion as well hence the slightly reduced square footage of about 1200 square feet with an aggregate footprint of about 1365 but to answer your further answer your question Matt I'm chair there are accessible fire accessible window wells and otherwise so the exact height from floor to ceiling I'm not certain of but I can allow the owner to chime in but from what I'm told it is currently compliant for height okay so we would be interested in floor to sill and also is there a driveway on this property Madam chair there is currently an existing driveway there is a garage that services to vehicles there's also enough room for off-tree parking so let me see looking at this plan where is the driveway is it on the right or on the left in the orientation of your plans in front of you the driveway would be to the left of the structure okay do we have a plan that shows how the parking is going to work because we just want to make sure there's so I so where is parking so proposed to be parking is along the entire length of the two-minute driveway and then also accessible in the garage itself okay so just let me ask a question if the at the smallest at the most narrow point it looks like the garage will be 13 feet three inches if somebody needs to get out of that basement will they have free access to safety if there's a car park there or not? Madam chair I would say driveway is a believer to require to be 10 feet in width this is 13.5 at a pinch point so I would say that if vehicles are parked there should still safely be safe means of egress out of windows that are accessible from that bedroom or those bedrooms along at the side okay so let me ask you about the third unit then tell us about that close third unit the third unit being the uppermost unit is it confirmed? The one with the shed dormer. Sure so there is a proposal if you're looking at the parcel to add a shed dormer to the right to briefly expand the existing square footage in the attic level so the third unit would be comprised of primary living space on the third floor approximately 1346 square feet with proposed living on the attic level of about 647 square feet so the aggregate size of the third unit will be 1,980 square feet Madam chair okay how would the plans Mr. Robinson? The plans are consistent with the proposal I think unfortunately I think the well the attic seems fine for me terms of the proposal and I think it's consistent with the street I think the the issue is going to be in the lower level I mean it's basically below grade and kind of going against everything in terms of how we think about these units being there and I think while the driveway may have an electric space the window wells are shown encroaching on that side so I think it's just got some some issues with the lower level proposed units or bedrooms okay any questions from the board Bob did you want to say something from BGD? Yes Madam Chair members of the board Bob the megal Boston Transportation Department I don't see how many cars would be parked in the driveway because if there were four then you have front yard parking for the one closest to the street so I would like to limit if you know the board would agree to limit the parking spaces to three spaces rather than four if that's what they're proposing okay thank you is anybody here to speak either in support or an opposition of this proposal? I ask the mark the afternoon Madam Chair members of the board don't see people's here from the Mary's Austin the Wood Services on the applicant with the one extensive community process by attending numerous community meetings including meetings with the River Street Civic Association on February 2nd and February 16th and the butter's meeting conducted by the Mary's Austin neighborhood services as well as on February 16th my apologies as well as so excuse me meetings with the River Street Civic Association on February 2nd and February 10th and then a butter's meeting held by the neighborhood services on February 16th as well as a March 9th community meeting with the Edgewater neighborhood association at all meetings questions concerns of the butter's and neighbors have been addressed support shown there should be letters from the River Street Civic Association and Edgewater neighborhood association on record but I also want to highlight support from the Greater Matter Pan neighborhood council as well I'm support highly comes from the home ownership aspect of proposal as well as to propose changes being used as an addition for the applicants family members. At this time the Mary's office would like to defer to the judgment of the board on this matter thank you I'm sure I have no waste hands. Okay I'm given that information and given our our history about basic minutes may I have a motion please. I'm going to make a motion to deny I'll second that motion. All in favor. All right. Any opposed? I opposed. So motion carries. Next. I'm calling next is BOA12988154014 Washington Street. Violations are will 67 section 33 insufficient fine. I said back out of 67 section 11 use regulations take out using conditional name and address. Mr. Durian. Here. I'm Jenny. I sent a request to unmute you. Are you here for this case? Can you hear me? Yes. Hi. I'm Jennifer Allen for the owner of Felipe Durian. No, I don't know why my screen just blanks out. But Mr. Miss Allen. Just see. Okay. It's back up again. Can you hear me now? Yeah. The my screen. Okay. Got it. Okay. So this is for take out window. This was before this board maybe a year and a half ago two years ago. Just to give the board some perspective. This applicant and this business was before this board. They built that 829 square feet front yard addition. And then came to this board for forgiveness. There were issues with noise from this building. And then they were before us looking for take out. And it was a bit of a rigmarole. And so I don't know what I don't remember what the outcome was if they would drew it. But Miss Allen you're back. So tell us what's being proposed this time. So we are back. Thank you for your time. Just as before we are short a mere the frontage or short a mere five feet. We're seeking to add the additional canopy, which is on the left side. We've actually made the canopy smaller this time. And it's approximately 18 by 10 that will accommodate for processing the takeout orders. It's going to allow my client to create the additional services to the public. As you've already mentioned, we already have the canopy for the entrance for the patrons walking in the additional canopy on the left side. We'll be in conformity with that entrance and structure. The addition that we are proposing is consistent with the character of the existing street. The buildings across the street come right up to the curb. All of the buildings up and down this street thus there's no detriment to the existing space or the neighborhood. I think harmony with the neighborhood. I will ask you because I happen to be familiar with this restaurant. And I think the last time we left it is a question to you was why couldn't take out a car through the building? Because that that oversized entrance way does allow you some flexibility to do take out from an existing frontage. Yes. And my client is on here as well and he can also speak to it. As you can see, the right side is the canopy that's already built. The left is what we are proposing, which I know one request prior to this was to keep a handicap accessible, which is what we are doing. The patrons that enter in on the right side, enter in and then they wait to be seated, but the takeout orders are also right at the register at the left. There's a build up with people now coming back out to enjoy the dinners and public, but there's still a lot of people that aren't comfortable still going out and he has an increase in the takeout. If they could have the takeout orders and the people will build up there. And there's not enough space that's allowing that. Let's just be clear for the rest of the board members. This is not a canopy in the usual sense of the word of a canopy. This is the, if we look at the front of the building, that vestibule is a actual structure. And so Miss Allen will you confirm that this will be actually a structure and not just a, I don't know, a canopy in the usual sense of the word of canopy. Correct. It'll be a structure. Yes. Okay. So this is pretty much what we had seen before. Why are you back with the same proposal? So we, we actually, it's a bit different. We, we made the, the additional structure smaller to accommodate. We kept the employee bathroom upstairs. We made it also handicapped accessible to satisfy their requirements and some of the feedback that we had received last time. That was what was requested. We've also been working with the neighborhood. We had meetings with the neighborhood, which they are also in support of this. And Mr. Durian is also invested in this neighborhood as he works there and lives there. So we've been working with the neighborhood as well. Okay. How are the plans Mr. Robinson? You know that you, I was trying to figure out where the canopy is, but I understand it's an addition. So we're adding FAR. This is this is interior interior space. It is consistent with the vestibule that they built before. So I think the questions are not necessarily with the proposal we understand what got it. Any questions from the board? Yeah, as I recall, the two issues, previously one was that there was a removal of an interior bathroom that seemed to make little sense. And then the actually handicapped accessibility wasn't going to work with the dimensions of the door. So I, Mr. Robinson, can you tell if those have been resolved? You're talking about the door into the takeout area. Yeah, it does not appear to meet accessibility. The door looks much, much smaller and there's only a four foot eight space between the door and the counter, which is not enough. So it doesn't seem to work from an MAABs day input, but I assume that would be fixed by ISD if this went forward, but I guess we can sort of put some brackets on it. I mean, basically as far as the plans are concerned, it's not the handicap accessible. Correct. It doesn't appear to be. That's correct. Any other questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak, either in support or in opposition of this proposal? I'm sorry. The board got a new, my name is Ujana Okshay and I'm the resident of liaison. We held a community meeting on February 16th. The community seemed to be in general support of this project. We did have concerns over the effect of takeout on traffic, but that will be remedied with the parking lot. Jen Allen did meet with Haley-Tukong and Justice and Neighborhood Association. In the area where I haven't received any letters of support, they did seem to be in support of this project as well. We would like to defer a judgment to the board. Just one letter of opposition in the file. The silent, can you tell us where the parking lot is? So there's a parking lot that's in back of the building and if you're looking at the building from the street, there's a left access entrance and there's parking all in back of the building. So did that outdoor seating go away? The outdoor seating if you're facing the building from the street is on the right side. And how many spaces are in the back? I'm not exactly positive. I know my client is on and he could speak to that 21. Actually, there's 21 spaces in the back and how many of those are taken up by staff? A lot of the staff will either come in and they're taking the transit. There's only about four that have that take up any of those spots. Okay. Ms. Ambassador, anybody else to speak on this? Regarding also if I just might leave your motion. Hold on. Ms. Ambassador, anybody else to speak on this? I have no raised hands, Madam Chair. Any may I have a motion please? Motion to the night. There are a second. All those in favor? Any opposed? Motion carries. Thank you. Collin, next case. So we're now into 1130. Collin, the next case. BOA 126. I want to for 6.7.11. Adress is 5.93595. Albany Street. Violations are Article 32 section 4G caught applicability. Article 64 section 16 floor area ratio excessive. Article 64 section 16 building height is excessive. Article 64 section 16. Area Art and sufficient. Article 64 section 36. Off Street Parking and loading requirements and maneuverability. Article 64 section 36. Article 65 section 15 youth regulations. Multi-family dwelling is conditional. Name and address for the record. Good afternoon, Madam Chair. Members of the board. Mark LeCasla, 75 Arlington Street in Boston. Attorney for the applicant. Also on the Zoom is Andrew Bersard, who is the project proponent. And Cacheal Tulean, who is our architect from stack and company. We were last before you in February. And there was a request to change the unit count from 9 to 10 as a good faith gesture. And that has been done. So the building itself is largely the same. We could stop at this slide. This is just a good indication of the context of the neighborhood. So was this I'm sorry, Miss LeCasla, but was this the project that is replacing the buy-eye center? Yes, the okay. So the question that we had was that this project goes a lot line to lot line. Yes, proposed to eliminate. Was it three on street, meat at parking spaces? That curb cut on the side of the building has been reduced to 12 feet. We've worked closely with Mr. Domingo to minimize that curb cut. So it's now only a 12 foot curb cut on the side of the building. The other garage access is on the rear of the building. Stop right here on this slide. Which is a private way. It's called Thorn Street. It's a through-speed between the back of the proposed new building. And the building that you can see in the foreground of the picture is the new Smith Building. But the width of the street together with the space between the buildings is 50 feet from the rear of the building. And you can see that the rear of the buildings are line up there. But the Thorn Street distance is 50 feet from the rear. The second garage door is on the back of the building access from Thorn Street. And then the side of the building is a 12 foot curb cut for three cars, three cars enter on the side and three cars will enter on the back. Okay. And tell us about the sizes of the units. So the unit count is now 10 with one affordable IDP unit. There are two one bedroom units ranging in size from 609 to 800. There are four two bedroom units that are all 1063, 1063 square feet. There are three bedroom units at 1455 square feet. And there is one unit on the top floor, a four bedroom unit at 2,356 square feet. And if I remember to the last time, neighbors were concerned about that traffic and parking on the alley. No, Madam Chair, we actually never got to the neighborhood public comment portion of the hearing, but we have universal support to this project, which we'll get. Also street level retail space on the front of the building to activate that's the street level storefront and that has been expanded to wrap around the corner of the building to further activate the street front again responsive to community request that we make that corner as lively as possible. Across the street is the new south end exchange, which is a 1 million square foot complex that construction has. Hold on. Tell us is our roof next to being proposed. Yes, Madam Chair, there's one public roof deck and there is one private roof deck on the top floor. Of course. Each of the units have small balconies for some measure of usable outdoor space. Also, since the last hearing ISD has now issued a demolition order for the existing behind center building, it was in significant state of disrepair and we had been working with the landmarks commission. This is the last hearing ISD has determined that the temporary shoring in interior to the building is insufficient and the building now has a demolition order in place, but we continue to work with the landmarks commission on the design of the new building as new structures in the protection area are subject to the landmarks commission and we met with them on an advisory basis for their feedback and the design that you see before you is reflective of those suggestions from the land. Marks commission as this has the the height of the building gone up since you were last year. It has not Madam Chair, the occupiable floor space is at 69, which is consistent with the 70 foot maximum in the south end. The mechanical and the elevator overrun for the access to the roof decks and the stairway access to the roof decks exceeds the 330 square foot maximum. Therefore, it counts toward the height thus our height accessification, but the occupiable space is one foot below the 70 foot height limit. And is this still scheduled to be a condo? Yes, these are ownership units, which you make the IDP unit and ownership opportunity as well. So before you were one for one bedrooms at a thousand for two bedrooms. So 1422 and one three bedroom at 2100. So basically you've gotten your space by reducing the size of the one bedrooms. How are the plans Mr Robinson? The plans are good. My office is actually too locked down and I know this area very well. I think the proposed height is I think is fairly consistent with Albany Street. Didn't hear the case before, but I do understand the rear access point. Yes, my only question. I think there was a question of the side and I don't know if Mr. Domingco might want to speak to that in terms of the side, in particular entrance, but no other questions for me in terms of the proposal except for that access point. Any other questions from the board? I think it could speak either in support or in opposition. Can everybody else please mute your sub? Hi, I'm running by chair. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board, Kim Curcioli from Mayors Office of Neighborhood Service. In September of 2021, where I support with Sean Baidi butters, they also went before the Black Stone Franklin Square neighborhood association where they received full support. You can also receive multiple letters of support from the butters and this would be a great mission and bring my witness to the area at this time our office would like to defer to the board of this matter. Thank you. Madam Chair, just we do have the the G call blood. Sorry, question is, is he up? Oh, sorry, question go ahead. That's fine. Members of the board, Christian Somalibos, and Grawart Trust, and we have both letters from the applicant. Thank you. Good afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the board, Anna Calderon from Council President's Film Office. The councilor would like to go on recording support based on feedback from both neighbors in the Black Stone Franklin neighborhood association as well as the inclusion of the board. The last inclusion on affordable in the other compromises and revisions to the branch with the community will respectfully ask the proponent continues to work closely with the neighbors to the construction phase. Thank you. Madam Chair, I just have one raised hand but it's Bob from the Transportation Department. Bob? Yes, Bob Domingo, Madam Chair, members of the board, Bob Domingo, BTD. I'm just a little concerned about this thorn street because when I Google it, it was like under construction. And I really don't understand how this is going to work only because it's not reflected in the actual site itself. I'd like to have some clarification on how thorn street is going to work because I have no idea why it is. And I just want to make sure that the maneuverability is okay. Okay, let's see if we have any more raised hands and then the applicant can respond to that. No other hands, Madam Chair. Okay. Go ahead, Miss LaCasca, can you respond to that? Yes, Mr. Domingo, thorn street indeed is a new through street connection connecting the two blocks. It's a 20 foot wide street. It is designated as a private way, but it's 20 feet wide. And on one of our slides, we show that the distance between the back of the proposed new building and the Smith, which is the new 100, a 10 story building along the street there, that's the three street thorn that has been created. And the total distance is 50 feet and the private way itself is 20 feet. So you have access to that thorn street as an butter? Yes, as an butter we have, as you know, rights to the midline in the private way, as does the budding property with equal access to both parties on either side of the private way and the right of the public to use the private way because it connects to public public streets. Okay, thank you. Okay, so give it that information. May I have a motion, please? Motion to approve. I'll stick in that Eric. All those in favor? We actually have. Motion carries. We're going to. Thank you so much. Okay. Oh, call. Yeah. Okay. Calling next case, BOA 1215510510, canterbury street. The violations are article 29 section 4. It's in the green vote deck that protection, overlay district and our 60 section 40 street parking and loading with fireman, name and address for the record. Madam chair, members of the board, my name is James Green. I'm an attorney with Ruben Rudman at 53 stage street on here on behalf of St. Michael Cemetery. I believe. And attendance with me is Michael she in from cemetery, Italia, Pazillado from Verdant landscaping and Eric Pearson our engineer. We have this as you see on your screen is the present photo of St. Michael Cemetery. Hold on, Mr. Green. You might have missed this, but we are a six member board. And for approval, you need all five members, unique five members in support. So we are offering as we usually do deferrals for applicants and administrative deferrals. Six members are fine for us. And let me just make clear is anybody is anybody recusing. Okay, so let's go ahead. Okay, so St. Michael's was formerly the Italian Catholic Cemetery Association. It's located in Jamaica playing, Rosendale, and this is in Mattapan board 14. Cemetery is on walk hills three, canterbury street, American Legion Highway. And it's located approximately 46 acres of cemetery grounds. The site plan you see in front of you is the landscaping plan for the 12 acre site, which is bounded by canterbury street, American Legion Highway, which is the Green Belt Roadway and walk hills. Located on this site presently is a crematorium building, which was permitted by DEP, that's the Department of Environmental Protection, the state level for crematory. And in 2019 and also a chapel building with a column barium and chapel offices and administrative offices. The site itself is located within the so called open space cemetery district, located in ward 14 is subject to the greater Mattapan neighborhood district zoning. And the site is located the entire cemetery is also located in Jamaica playing and Rosendale, all of which is in an open space cemetery district. The uses for the cemetery for a chapel of mortuary, a crematorium, a column barium, all of the funeral related uses under Article 2A are allowed in this district because they are not allowed in any other district in the city of Boston except for an open space cemetery district. The project we propose is you'll see outlined and read on this photo is to add to the existing chapel building 7600 square foot addition, which will house for additional crematorium retorts as they are referred to. And this building will have a viewing space offices and so forth. So as I look at the violations looks like the two violations you have is the G pod green bell protection overlay district and off street parking and loading requirements. So in your presentation, if you can speak to what you're anticipated increase in use is going to be with these four additional crematorium retorts. So how many will there be in total? There are approximately eight, there'll be 12 in total. 12 retorts, okay. And so if you can tell us what the increase in capacity is that you're anticipating with this four additional as far as parking and loading. There is no loading requirement for the size of this project. The parking citation by ISD you'll see on the parking plan, which is plan C dash three. There is a parking area located plus parking along the street up the interior roadway. And we have 26 parking spaces, the requirement is 20. So I will not question what ISD cited. I'm just asking that the board approved the 26 because under the code the requirement is 20. And we have 26. Okay, so just tell us then how, let's see where so let's see. So we see the proposed building and the total square feet of the proposed building is 7,600 square feet. So what is about the anticipated increase in use? Are you expecting a 30% increase, 25% increase? What are you expecting? Well, since the onset of COVID and the last two years, crematory use has increased most likely because of the, and also because of the space for burial has been reduced. So this will be we have eight now will for four additional. That's an increase of perhaps 25%. Okay. I should say 50% to increase it to 12 retorts in the bill. Our actual capacity is basically at 60% capacity. We're not at full capacity under the permit from DEP. We don't envision that to be in excess of probably 60% to so. So you anticipate to continue to be at 60%. So it means the your other retorts will be used last frequent last frequent. But they're not this is not a 24 hour operation. Madam chair. Okay. If I may address the G pod, we do have an extensive landscaping plan, which is shown in the plans here, I believe it's plan V as in Victor one. I'm sorry, L, L one. It's right in the beginning. So it's L dash one. What we do have is approximately 112 new shrubs and trees to plant evergreen to sit you as ornamental. I know that you'll have to go to the parks department on that. So I'm figuring your and safe hands on that. But let me just go back to how are you anticipating the business to work. So I'm assuming that. I mean, I guess I just don't know how many people come to view a to view, you know, a crematorium activity. So can you explain how that's going to work? I'm going to ask Michael Shan, I believe we should be on the. To raise his hand and participate. I have some questions to add on to. Let's get the basics on the racket. I can hear you. If they could be recognized. It's Michael Shan, not sure if you can hear me. Please put your name and address on the racket. It's Michael Shan, general manager, CM, cemetery 500, canabraged feet in Boston. Okay. So I think you heard my question. Can you explain to us how this? Can I ask everybody who is shooting us comments that you should, in fact, wait and make sure that your comments are on the record when we do call for comments because these ones that you shoot to us don't necessarily get into the record. Make sure in the meantime that you are coordinating. So I have a couple of people speaking and each person gives us new information rather than repeat what everybody has said. For those of you who have sent in letters, we've seen the letters, we've reviewed the letters. In the meantime, Mr. Shan, please go ahead and explain to us how this is going to work because the land use impact that that is cited here very specifically is off street parking. So explain to us if people come for viewings when the crematorium is is working. Currently we have a viewing area in our existing crematory that's very small and size. And so we're trying to further serve the community of Boston with different religious groups and ethnic groups that want to witness cremations take place, which is about more often the past couple of years. So in that design, we have a larger viewing area, which you can see is the middle part of the building next to the retorts. That's why we incorporated a parking area so we could accommodate any additional parking that would be required. There is quite a bit of parking within the cemetery itself. There is not a need for parking on the street itself in Canberra Street. I think that's your question. As far as increased use in the building, that's very unpredictable. It depends on the rate of cremation, how that rises within the next few years. But the main point of the building is to accommodate an area where families can witness the cremation and have services on site. And is that an active brook in the rear of the building? Yes. And are you within 100 feet of that brook? We've gone to the Conservation Commission and have approval and made all the requirements and conditions that they were asked to follow. Okay. And a lot of the comments we've seen are concerned about air quality. Is there any kind of response you have to that? We've filed a permit, because it's about two years ago now, with the DEP. That's who monitors our emissions. And we've shared that with the neighborhood groups. It's a 20 page permit that certain conditions that we have to follow are very restrictive. And we also have our engineer on that's available to any particular question that you have. But we've met all the programming requirements for the DEP for the new required unit. That's where we started with the process. And can you highlight what some of those air quality restrictions are so that we can have that on the record? Madam Chair, I submitted to the board a complete copy of the permit approval from DEP as well as the Boston Conservation Commission approval. But as a summary, there are operational production and emission limits in the permit. And we have our compliance demonstration, the 17 monitoring and reporting testing requirements in the permit. There's 14 conditions for record keeping in the permit. And there are 14 special terms and conditions in the permit. So we have been through this our contribution, if you will, to the emissions is minor compared to the surrounding area with respect to the modeling that was done. I did the DEP which was done based upon existing conditions from the monitoring station located on House and F and at Noobian Square, which is the criteria that DEP use we reviewed this with a number of individuals with people in the city. The Boston Public Health Commission staff has indicated that this is a DEP review and approval. They only answer to perhaps a request for an inspection. They don't have control over this. This is a DEP permit. Let me ask Mr. Shin how often is DEP out there and how often is your quality submittal to you at DEP? There's a two-year source registration that we comply with and submit that to DEP and DPs can do an inspection at any time of the day at night. And just to clarify that in fact, even with these four additional pre-matorium retorts, you will still be functioning at 60% capacity just to give your other retorts. You're not going to use all 12 of them. I clarify for me that you will not be using all 12 of them at the same time. That's a possibility. Permanent is issued for operating all 12 at the maximum number of hours that they've allowed us to operate. So the emissions are calculated on that. And what are the hours? The hours in the permit too. Another permanent. If we have it, I think we've submitted the copy of the permit to you as well. Okay. That's one of our conditions, Jim. Okay. Hold on, hold on. How are the plans, Mr. Robinson? So I guess I can only weigh in on the architecture. I think the proposed addition is consistent with it. And I understand the landscape plan and the proposed parking. So I have no questions on the sort of proposal of the building. Okay. Any questions from the board? Yeah, a couple. Just the first one. So for the viewing, those will be scheduled. You won't be having like two finalists coming in back to that. Concurrently, right? You'll schedule on. Really your schedule, yes. Everything's scheduled. So. Okay. Okay. And then with the retorts, how you were going to look up the hours operation, but correct me if I'm wrong. If you're operating at 60% capacity, it doesn't really make sense to turn on and start another retort. Right. I'm just trying to figure out why if you're only operating at 60% lighting, why do we need to work while you need to work more? It's the demand of the day. So you're not going to instant demand of the day. If you have several funerals and several scheduled cremations, then you use your equipment based on what you need is a particular day. Subticate to change. Subticate to change at any hour or any day. So keep me relatively throughout the year you're at 60% but some days it's very busy and other days it's correct. Correct. Correct. Yeah, correct. Okay. Just want to clarify. Okay. Any other questions from the board? Okay. So I'm anticipating that there will be a lot of hands raised on this. I will take comments from in addition to elected officials to maybe five residents. So please residents, we've seen your letters as I said before. So please coordinate among yourselves who is going to speak on your behalf and anybody who speaks, please give us new information. Okay. Let's start with elected officials or representatives of elected officials. Yes. Good afternoon Madam Chairman. We move to the board. Down to the people's here from the mayor's office and they put services. There was an a butters meeting held by neighborhood service on October 27th where one support was shown or resident. As well as a letter of support sent to the zoning board of appeal. However, at the same meeting on neighbors, neighbors of butters and neighborhood members of neighbor association, voice concerns regarding possible mercury emissions and emissions from metals and are clothing that the city may wear during the cremation process, the possibility of having air quality Mars being set up along American region, highways, as well as walk hill street. Surrey with the possibility of 12 retorts operating at full capacity and at all on the on the premises, as well as the outer dispersal area being 4,500 feet in all directions. There was additional meetings held in the form of sidewalks of St. Michael Cemetery with a representative from Greater Manipera neighborhood council on November 23rd. Then a meeting with the Greater Manipera County Council's zoning committee on January 20th. Again, additional meetings were held in the form of site and of a sidewalk with a Mount Canterbury neighborhood association representative from out hope, Canterbury neighborhood association, Boston nature center as well as the Woodborne neighborhood association on December 16th. Butters and neighbors have shown continued concern of the proposal. The proposal is possible in very much of impacts of expansion of the cremation facilities and how processes will be monitored. Butters and neighbors have shown concern regarding the fact that there are only two crematories in the area, St. Michael's and Forest Hills and how they are fairly close to proximity in the environmental impacts of such the same concerns for schools and facilities in the areas such as Hayley Pylate, Colony Youth Center and the Clark Cooper Community Garden. The Greater Manipera neighborhood council, Mount Hope, Canterbury neighborhood association and Woodborne neighborhood association are in opposition and or axford the foro or denial of the goals at this time. The man's office has received a large number of letters of opposition as well as emails and opposition from our butters and neighbors. We would like to highlight the permanent approvals and the permit of the proposal being in compliance with mass DEP, the Boston Conservation Commission, the Air Pollution Control Commission as well as the Boston Public Health Commission as well as the African children to adopt a new policy to limit to attempt to limit possible emergency emergency from the cremation process by talking with human directors to remove mercury alloys from fillings and or clothing that may contain metals as well as pacemakers hit replacement, leave replacement things of the such. At this time the mayor's office would like to go on like an opposition of this proposal. Thank you. So the mayor's office is going on record. It's not leaving it to the discretion of the board. Correct. We'll be in opposition at this time. Thank you. So anybody else, Mr. Massager? We don't have one more question, Madam Chair. No, hold on. Let's just get all the people on record and then we will close off with any outstanding information. Yeah. Madam Chair, I remember the board, Dustin Gardner, the City Council, the WRL's office. We would like to commend the team for their community engagement as mentioned by the mayor's office. Willing this to me site visit explanation of the process. But we do have to go on record in opposition, citing the neighbor opposition and just a desire for more localized monitoring of air quality in that area to increase the amount of retorts in this project. Okay. And Rick, the order you've been muted, can you state your name and Ag is Philip Rick at please? Yes. Rick Yoder, 180-month hope street and Rosendale, the amount we kind of very, very, definitely. The main problem stems from the mass department of environmental protection as close to a secret process and deciding this. We didn't learn for it. It was a year before we learned that he had already issued the permit and basically no public input or opportunity to speak and go to meetings and so on. And we have already found one flaw in their permit, which had to do with mercury. They did not discuss mercury in their permitting. Fortunately, we had a very good conversation with St. Michael's about this and after some discussion, they agreed to require all the funeral homes that use our services to remove the fillings from a cadaver that would have mercury out. That would not have happened. That did not happen through the BPC. So, Mr. Yoder, can you please tell us after your deeper dive into this, whether you're in support or in opposition of this proposal? At this point, I'm in opposition. We want to work with the cemetery, St. Michael's, to solve some of these problems, but we're not there yet. There are other pollutants we're worried about that haven't really been adequately addressed in our estimation. And where I had our disadvantage that none of us are experts. So we're doing a lot of catch-up research and trying to understand this and trying to find an expert in the city would be in the present. So the technical expertise at DEP, you're questioning them and the air pollution control commission, you're questioning their, their erosivity too? I don't know anything about the, yes, the city's department. I don't want to be that severe on the DEP. He understand our own versus flundent, but in fact, that is what has happened. Okay, got it. Okay. May I hear from a couple of other people too? Yeah, I have to go with Asera. Hi, everybody. My name is Sarah Evan Colvario. I live at 8 Catherine Street in Rosendale. I live, it's in the Woodborne neighborhood. I just want to point to the fact and I appreciate very much both the mayor's office and the office that Dustin Gardner speaks for, sharing the opposition that the neighborhoods that are in this area. Sarah Evan, can you please tell us, get to the point please? Yes. I just give you my address and said thank you to the people who have already spoken. I just want to stress the fact that we as neighbors have really asked for support from the St. Michael's, which is a business, to really clarify for us how this is safe. And although you just asked Rick Yoder about the safety of DEP, just because one entity says things are safe doesn't mean that we as residents and also schools and preschools and nature centers don't deserve to have people help us understand how this affects the environment affects our health. So I think the city, are you requesting a deferral or what is your, your, your requesting, I am requesting on behalf of the, in addition to the neighborhood, a deferral or a denial. Okay. Let's, some, please for any other people who have raised hands, give us new information please. And once you've spoken, put your hand down. Only new information. Okay. Thank you. Hi. Hi Madam Chair and members of the board. I am Libba Ingram. I live at 87 Florian Street and Jamaica Plain. It's in the Woodburn Neighborhood Association. And the only new information I would add is that when we say working with St. Michael's and trying to learn more is there are possibilities for making the installation of these retorts safer to allow for less, uh, pollutions, pollutants to be released from the retorts. That's the kind of thing we would like to explore with St. Michael's and to have them include in the plans. For example, it in, uh, cemetery, uh, Mount, oh gosh, I forgot the name, the Sympeterian Cambridge. Um, they have wet scrubbers to, uh, installed to take out further pollutants. There's no indication as far as I know in the plans for St. Michael's to do that kind of thing and there are other things that could be done to provide safer environmental impact. Okay. Thank you. Miss, a master, anybody else? I guess I'll raise the hand come up for Chris. Chris, I'm a question. Maybe go ahead. Can you say the name and I'll be there? I have to Chris will take one more person and then, um, you know, move, move to, I'll bring closure to this. Okay. Chris, do you have anything else? Steve, last, I live at 15 Southborne Road, uh, which is part of the Woodburn Neighborhood, um, speaking as a neighbor to the cemetery and also as a customer, uh, my funeral director, uh, who has been planning, uh, the disposition of my remains with me has let me know that, uh, the St. Michael's cemetery is the least expensive option for a cremation, uh, and until, uh, until the state approves a more ecologically sound disposal method, uh, that's what I will have to go with. But I don't want my legacy to affect the health and well-being of my neighbors after I'm gone. So I just wanted to make that point. Thank you. Great. And Sean, go ahead. Okay. Sean, I sent a request to unmute you. Can you stay to me when I just went to the office? Yeah, we can hear you now. Great. Thank you. Sorry about that. My name is Sean Pventure and I'm at 72 Southborne Road, uh, not far away from the project, um, requesting a denial and the new information I'm bringing is that I don't think anyone has mentioned that this project is across the street. American Legion Highway from the, um, Boston, the Mass Audubon Boston Nature Center, um, a great outdoor space that serves under Serves communities, uh, primarily in City of Boston. It also houses a preschool, um, but that is a stone's throw from the project. Thank you. And then we know there's that public school on American Legion. So yes, we do get have a sense of the neighborhood. Okay. Um, I'm just going to close comment from the community and opinions from the community. And let me just go back, um, and ask if there are any more outstanding questions from the board. I just have one going back to the loading and logistical operations of this expansion. How are they going to accommodate? Do they have room in the expanded facility to hold the seat in so they're going to expand that. They're more area where the medical examiner viewing to happen. Like, are they taking that into account? Is there is a storage area for a medical examiner to witness cremations and you're expanding that to the expanded capacity? Yes, just gets an additional building. Okay. We separate separate operation. Okay. And Mrs. Sheen, can you please tell us whether, um, whether individuals are cremated with clothes or without clothes just so that we know if that's an additional pollutant into the air. They are. We receive the human remains in a closed container, whether it's a casket or cremation trail, it's called. And so we don't open that container. I see. Okay. So, okay. Got it. Okay. And I'm assuming that Mount Orban is managed by DP. The permit is also managed by DP. They are. We actually, I heard that the, the neighbors said that they do additional requirements or, additional equipment added on to theirs. And we researched the permit and did not see any additional equipment that we don't use. And our fact, I think our standards were a little bit, a little bit more stringent than theirs. Okay. Because, um, and you do have scrubbers? We don't have scrubbers. It's, I don't believe that's an equipment that's available in addition to. Okay. It's, you know, we, we purchase the equipment through a manufacturer and they do, they do all the testing and it's almost like you wouldn't add an additional piece of, like muffler to, you know, a cardigan purchased. This is the equipment. The purchase. Ah, I'm going to have a manufacturer. Die. Okay. Okay. Um, board. Um, this is any, any, any last questions and then we get to a decision. Um, any last questions? Okay. May I have a motion, please? I'm going to make a motion to deny without prejudice. It seems to me that there is issues that have been raised that haven't been fully addressed but that they, but that there's the possibility of finding a solution that acceptable to everyone. So that's my motion. Sarah, second. Okay. All those in favor? Aye. Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Um, it sounds to me like, like, um, there's some kind of communication breakdown or something like that. Uh, though I do do understand that you've tried. So please continue working with your butters because, yes, there is a need for this. Um, and we, um, you know, so thank you. Mr. Regiera. Very much for your time. Yes. Thank you. Calling. Um, but let's, let's circle back. We'll call an extension that, see if the person that went to the jumping on, if there's a, a, a, 2, 2, 5, 2, 8, 71, Mozart Street. Is there anybody online for that? Can we defer this then to the next meeting? Uh, yep. Like I'm going to defer. I'll make a motion to defer. Is there a second? Second. All those in favor? Aye. Aye. Aye. Any opposed? Of the date, please? Uh, April 26th. Okay. April 26th at 930. We'll see them then. Please, if somebody from the ISD office could be in touch with them to let them know. Thank you. Um, meeting is now adjourned. No, no, no. No, we have one more. Eight more streets. Right? No, no, no. That was deferred for 24. Okay. The meeting is now adjourned. Recording stopped. 824. Thank you, everybody. Have a good day. Thank you. Bye. Thank you. I want to see how they go.