 you you you you take care and bear leave long and We're going to go right ahead. Joining one. Sure, the first one is an instant street, 9189th instant street. We're crossing the front. So, those would be for companion cases being one case, POA, one five three, five three three five. With the address of 98 Benington Street. Along with that, we ask case POA. one five three five three three seven. What's the also also what the address of the Indian Bank and Street. Go ahead and explain. Turn on. Thank you. This is time. Good morning. I'm chairman of the board. Richard Lins 2.5 summer street on behalf of the petitioner. I'm out of chair with respect to this proposal. So first request for the full. We have reviewed the BPD a recommendation and we understand there is conversations about a draft zoning for that neighbor but we'd like to take a look at what the final decision is for draft zoning before we proceed with this. So we're requesting a referral. How much time do you think you'll need? Are we looking at January dates right now? On here. Yes, yes, Richie. That's that's the days we're looking at right now. January would be fine. Thank you. I'd suggest January 23rd. I'm not sure if the draft of the neighborhood yet. I think that just to be safe January 23rd. I'll start with that. Well, that may have a motion. Motion to defer to January 23rd. 2024. Thank you. Thank you. Second, Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Miss Wewell. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Miss Begaraza. Yes. Miss Pannato. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Sure. Also votes yes. Motion carries. Thank you. The second one is just averages on one dash five board in street. That is an article. It's scheduled for 11 a.m. However, there's a companion case that this goes with at 1 p.m. We're requesting to be heard together at one o'clock. The awesome planning development agency to prove this as one archivaly project. We feel in the interest of completeness, it makes the most sense to hear that at 1 p.m. So I'm asking for the photo 1 p.m. I'll go in the track. Thank you, Mr. Winds. I would agree. Is there a motion? Motion to extend until 1 p.m. today. Is there a second? Thank you, Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Miss Wewell. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Miss Begaraza. Yes. Miss Pannato. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. And also, yes, motion carries. Thank you, Mr. Marshall. Hearing no other requests, you will return to case B.O.A. 153 6404 with the address of 21 long board group. Is the applicant in the order representative present to explain to the board? Yes, I am. Oh, go ahead. Thank you, Mr. Smith. Good morning, Madam Chair, and all the board members. My name is Frank Williams. I'm currently the owner of 21 Wallingford Road. And Wallingford Road is currently a two-family home that I'm looking to convert to a three-family. The makeup of the property itself is a, it's a, it's a row house. And it's connected to 49 other row houses that make up leaving 10 Wallingford and Commonwealth Avenue. The, the house has always been used in the past as a three-family. There are, there are two means of egress for all three apartments. For some reason, the past owners, I've been the owner of it for a year now. And it's currently vacant and it is under construction. And it's been, we had to bring it up to code for the city. So the, so one of the things I'm looking to do is just really legalize it and, and do the necessary things to, to bring it into a three-family house. I currently have three, three violations that are insufficient, live area, insufficient additional live area in parking. Currently the, the building does have two parking spaces that are off street that are dedicated to parking. There, it is a corner building. So it does have a yard that's a little, a little larger than most for a row house. So we do have outdoor space. There is a patio outdoors for the, for the basement apartment, for the lower level apartment. And all the other apartments will have means of deck, decks running off of the fire escape. So that people were able to access the re-enter or the side of the building via deck onto a, onto a fire escape. And I think, you know, pretty much that that really sums it up. It's, it's definitely in a transit oriented area. There's the, the B line, the C line and the D line. That actually are only five to ten minutes away from this particular property. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Madam Chair, the recommendation from the BPDA makes note of, that the advocate doesn't have existing floor plans showing the three units, but I see the plans in front of me. So I just want to make note of that. Okay. And any questions about those crimes? Okay. With that, may I have public testimony? Yes. Good morning, Madam Chair. Or the Frank Bendoza off-sprite and the A's on the mayor's office of neighborhood services. For 21 long for road, we had a butter's meeting on August 22nd with very few attendees. We did record some support based on the applicant's record as landlord. The Brighton also improvement association did receive a presentation from this applicant, their zoning chair, and a melagol should be on to testify as to their stance. We don't have any better self support or opposition for this project, and we'd like to defer to the judgment of the board at this time. Thank you. Okay. No other elected officials are going to give it to Allison. Can you briefly stage a name and address and tell us if you support opposition? Good morning. My name is Allison. I own one of the row houses, about 1757 Commonwealth Avenue. It happens Mr. Williams owns each of the other joining townhouses on either side of my building. And I have found him to be a responsible land responsible and responsive owner. So if there are any concerns that I raised to him about the shared boundary, he's always available and able to speak with me. And we have always resolved things to our mutual satisfaction. I'd also like to know if Mr. Williams has any thought for structuring rent around the different ratio of apartment dwellings to parking spaces in particular. Because I know he has to a nice pad for parking for two. And I wonder if he had any thought for offering a different rent for someone who doesn't have a car or. Okay. Well, thank you. Any other raised hands on the panelists? I don't know if that's the problem. Okay. Any other questions from the board? If you'd like to address that, Mr. Williams, feel free, but that's not within our review. I can talk with Allison, privately. Oh, thank you. Okay. Is there a motion? Yes, Madam Chair. I'd like to put forward a motion of approval with a proposal that the applicant submits an existing floor plan for the second floor. And if there's any renovations on the second floor to also submit the new floor plan. To be continued. Okay. To be continued. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. And there's a real. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Berthrause. Yes. Mr. Panado. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. There are also votes. Yes. Motion carries. Good luck, Mr. Williams. Thank you. Next, we have a B-O-A, 152-0516, with the address of 36 Ellison Avenue. Is the applicant and or the representative person to explain to the board? Yes. Okay. Okay. On. Can you raise your hand? This proposal? Okay. Okay. Someone just raised your hand. Okay. I'm going to make you a panelist. You can just accept when that pops up and then unmute yourself. Hello. Hello, Mr. Roch. Please proceed. Hello. My name is Timothy Roch. And I'm 36 Ellison Avenue and my wife. We have a variance on the property. We wanted to extend the back of that house 10 feet and add a deck. But there's a variance on the side of the property that's about 6.5 feet. I mean, for 10 feet, I'm going to have 6.5 feet. I think the variance has changed in 1970. Okay. Also, my film is on this call, too. Okay. Are there questions from the board? Yes. Are you also extending the driveway or not? The driveway? Yes. Yes. We're not extending the driveway. Okay. We're not extending the house straight back to the existing house, along the existing. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Here in the manhood of the testimony. Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Everett James of the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. The applicant for 36 Ellison Avenue had an abundance of reading on October 11, 2003. They met with the Lower Mill Pacific Association Integrated Freedom Matter Hand Neighborhood Council. Both issue and letters of support. We've also received a 11 total letters of support. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. And at the time, I have no additional distance. Okay. Would that have a motion? I'm sure the make-em was in 12 look. May I have a second? Thank you. Mr. Stonebridge. Yes. This we will. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. This bed browser. Yes. This bed browser. Yes. This bed browser. Yes. This bed browser. Yes. This bed browser. Yes. This bed browser. Yes. This bed browser. Yes. This bed browser. Yes. This can auto. You're on this model. Sorry. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Also, yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Thank you. Next, we have two companion article 80 cases. The first is case B.O.A. 153, 6.0, 6.0. Yes. I hope you will. With the address of 3, 10 northern Avenue. Along with that we have case B.O.A. 153, 6.0, 8.0. With the address of 5. 5. 5. 9. 5. 5. 5. 5. 5. 5. And I just say to the advocate we have like four more article 80 projects. So please please do be efficient. Thank you Good morning to hear me. Yes we can Thank you Madam Secretary and members of the board. My name is Danielle Blake and I'm pleased to be here today Representing Marcus partners where affiliate of the project proponent with a business address of 201 Washington Street sweet 2100 in downtown Boston Joining me here today is John Sullivan from SGA the architect of record and Jeff Powell and Matt Fitzgerald the project attorneys from DLA Next slide please the project consists of two buildings with the addresses of three time Northern Avenue and five feet Kennedy Avenue The project site is one parcel measuring approximately 183,000 square feet known as parcel X in the Wain, Nell Flynn marine park The project is located within the general industrial sub district i2 of south Boston and is governed by the underlying base provisions of the Boston zoning code But it is also located within a restricted parking overlay district and the coastal flood resilience overlay District the proposed uses we are discussing here today are permitted by right however There are four points of zoning relief. We do need including Avarian to allow the FAR requested by the city and approved by the state for this parcel and the Wain, Nell Flynn marine park master plan update Additionally, a variance from the minimum pair of pits at back requirement as well as a conditional use permit for the accessory parking garage Because it's an restricted parking district and a conditional use permit for the parking garage within the restricted parking overlay district Next slide please The project site is owned by the economic development and industrial corporation of Boston It's currently approved by two buildings, totally approximately 72,000 square feet which is home to the new Boston seafood summer pursuant to a groundless with the EDIC We have entered into an agreement with the new Boston seafood center to acquire that existing groundless and to relocate to seafood companies located at the property to a new processing facility near the project site We've also entered into an agreement with the EDIC to acquire and restate the groundless upon the south's bathroom in certain conditions including permanent next slide please The project consists of demolishing the existing buildings and constructing two new life science R&D buildings known as 310 Northern and 5th it can be avenue collectively totaling approximately 42,000 square feet consistent with the master plan update while the majority of our project will be Like science R&D use we do have the option for our new groundless with the EDIC to have no more than 3% of our building area as non-destination retail Which is to support the marine park tenants? 310 Northern is the larger of the two buildings that seven stories and approximately 456,000 square feet 5th Kennedy with six stories and approximately 286,000 square feet also Excited to say that our site plan includes approximately 50,000 square feet of public ground For public enjoyment by the marine park tenants We've also identified an area on the site for truck turns associated with our neighbors intensive loading operations located directly to the west of us at car Community John Nagle and we're planning for approximately 315 new parking spaces and garages below the buildings The project was previously subject to review and approval of the BPDA under article 80 and meek overview and approval I'm going to ask John Sullivan for my stage just to quickly describe a couple more project details John Next Danielle this is John Sullivan from From SGA where there are collect for the project The two sheets that may be the most helpful to talk to would be the site plan As as well as the the building sections of their available um You know discussing the the site approach. I think kind of the points to make are is that you know we're very very responsive to You know the industrial nature of the neighborhood and what's happening along seafoodway and fit Kennedy Avenue and and have really worked hard to You know modify our building and to create a street scapes that is just you know really respects that the truck travel and support says businesses That said our public realm, you know offerings are organized more around northern avenue and the unnamed access road to the east Where we have a pocket park a courtyard and a really nice kind of pedestrian experience for both buildings 310 northern avenue is the seven-story building that fronts on northern avenue Uh, it is 138 feet in height. It's raised three feet above the above the grade for resiliency purposes um, and the average or the typical floor of floor height is 14 foot six um, the front door is kind of on the on the center of the northern avenue block. There's also access from the courtyard Uh, five feet Kennedy Avenue is similar as an L shape building That faces did candy avenue at six levels Also raised for resiliency purposes to the same data um, and also has the same floor of floor heights, but it's a little bit lower and in total height at 133 feet So a little a little bit about the buildings And how they how they sit on the site again the upper levels are meant for R&D purposes and there's one level of parking that that sits beneath both buildings and in the public realm Did you know Yeah, and I would just say John was speaking to the um plans that were part of our refusal package um, but I was end with the project benefits, but you know this project is going to provide information opportunities during construction and upon construction We're going to provide significant contributions to support the creation of affordable housing and workforce training programs We're also um, you know contributing to the city of Boston tax space and ground revenue that can be used to help fund millions of dollars and infrastructure Need to support the port uses We are going to meet the cities net zero carbon targets as I mentioned But protecting the needs of our industry on the universe who've been operating successfully in the park for years We're going to contribute over three million dollars towards the city's transportation mitigation going to implement transportation improvement projects identified by the master plan update And we are investing in a new seafood facility for the sellers who want to continue to grow their business as the new Boston seafood facility That exists today is showing its age and has limitations that are cost prohibited For the sellers to upgrade That does conclude our presentation Thank you Thank you. Any questions from the board? You guys selected a general contractor yet Uh, we are currently working with John Moriarty and associates for pre-construction services Thank you. You're welcome Do you have a potential tenant for the life science and research spaces? Oh, we would love to say yes Great now we do not Okay, do you know what level what what type of Hazardous if any or vice Yeah, sure, so I think um, you know, we're planning for you know biosegue level two um But again, I don't know specifically who the tenant's going to be but Thank you. Yeah, I see the bpda head So you the project manager Mr. Polanco Yes I'm chair members of war man secretary daniel polanco project manager bpda We held a uh, political hearing for this project on November 17th of 2022 And received uh full waterproof of bpda With this information manager members of the board I just want to know that they they receive full support from our board members. Thank you Thank you I see someone from the mayor's office That's not Connor do you want to speak? Hello, madam chair members of the board Lydia Plaspie with the mayor's office as neighborhood services um 310 on northern ab five-fid kennedy Was a ppda project and I went through their committee process as you heard We have received no letters of support or opposition Uh, when s is unaware of any concerns at this time. We would like to defer to the judgment of the board. Thank you Thank you The members of the war and a calderon from council president flings office the councilor would like to go on great-coring support The pro this project will create approximately 34 hundred jobs and help Re-vitalize the area the councilor released that this project will be a valuable addition to the district And the proponent has come to the community process The councilor respectfully request that the zoning war um provide a reconciliation to this proposal. Thank you Thank you. Madam chair members of the board Paul Soling for city council large micro flirty I can send them it's a council president flings office council. They're going to support. Thank you My chair members of the board might not arise for presenting the carpet there's union on behalf of hundreds of union carpet There's a little work to a seat of boss and I want to go and record support this project Thank you Are there any other raised hands? Yeah, sorry Danielle. Can we get testimony here? No additional raise hands Okay, would that be a motion? Can we make a motion to approve? I'm sorry Mr. Starrich All right, are you ready Mr. Starrich? I was You're welcome But again, yeah, okay Ms. Leroy. Yes, Mr. Valencia. Yes Miss Beto-Baza. Yes, Miss Conato. Yes, Mr. Collins. Yes, chair also. Well, yes motion carries Thank you Next we have case B O A 150 6396 With the address of one more place Is the applicant and the weather representative's plan to report Can you raise your hand if you're on to this proposal Maria To Boa To board You won't see them on Then Okay But we can ask you can ask again about your butt The hand was raised Madam Chair. Okay Do you see Jessica? I don't see a chair. Joe is a guest Under Joe Joe, are you on for this proposal you've been unmuted? Yes, I am muted Are you here for one more place? Yes, and Bob G the owner should be on as well But Until he joins in Um Can you introduce yourself and proceed? He's being transitional panelist Madam Chair. Thank you. See you everything Excellent. Thank you Joe, we can hear you now your panelist now Joe you can go ahead and unmute yourself I'm gonna try to unmute that on my side as well, but It's not a long. Yes, he has to do it on his side Mr. Consolvo you can go ahead and unmute on your end Okay Okay, I am muted Perfect. Thank you. All right, so with the contractor that was hired is listed as the applicant, but Abandoned the project without a permit the building department shut it down as a friend of Bob I stepped in and Got a survey plan and in the drawings and as you can see Um, sorry sir. Can you also just introduce yourself for the record? Joe Consolvo union construction ink six four seven boils and sweet Boston Thank you. Please proceed So the the dormers were left open to the weather in total disrepair The building the pop and granted him permission to temporarily top them and Once the applications was filed The refusal letter was issued Because of the existing non-conforming zoning of this very small lot and We're just hoping to have the variance granted so I can send in some competes To put this house back together Thank you. Any questions from the board? Hearing none man for the testimony Also Bob did speak with the local neighborhood groups And they were in support Of him cleaning up his proper Thank you and hopefully we'll hear from the one and from that is there He was on 20 minutes ago. I don't know where he went Jessica is there any public testimony? Hi Hi, I'm Olivia Domaz Mayor's office of the neighborhood service The applicant met with Eagle Health Civic Association in October the group voted unanimously to support the project At this time our office would like to defer judgment to the board. Thank you Thank you Just made on my panel is that might take him a second. The little madam chairman members of the board is the best Empire from concert goletta's office So as Mel had mentioned and the applicant met with Eagle Hill and the committee what it is For unanimously and the concert also spoken with the owner of this project and so the council would like to go on support Thank you. Thank you May I have no additional reasons Okay, was that may have a motion A motion to approve may I have a second back in? Mr. Stonebridge Yes We will yes Mr. Valencia Yes Miss Beto-Paraza yes Miss Panato yes Mr. Collins yes Should also was yes motion carries good luck Thank you very much For the next three cases Um Go first Three were deferred until January 23rd And the first next two which are companion cases for 98 Benning Street And then So one five one to five one ministry has been referred until one five Oh See the moment that we will move on to the read discussions schedule for 130 And first we have case B.O.A. 1242680 With the address 171 Corny Road Is the applicant and the one they represented the president to explain to the board Yes, thank you Cameron Merrill on behalf of the applicant I believe the designer Raffi's to go and owners Nathan And Nicholas and Nathan and Nicholas Corzana are also on the zoom please Just want to confirm they've been promoted I promoted necklace madam chair Is this proceed And is is Raffi Segal promoted Um, I'll promote them right now. Okay, great thank you. So thank you very much Madam chair members the board Cameron Merrill business address 100th State Street Boston, Massachusetts This is a project which is at the intersection of Corny Road and Washington Street As you leave Brookline and enter Brighton as you proceed down Washington Street This project has been a Long time coming it was applied for over a year and a half ago And there's been a robust community process This project is within the Washington Street neighborhood shopping district sub district And it is proximate to the five Washington project The old foods project directly across the street And the abutting property uphill from this project which recently Burned down likely will be redeveloped in some fashion in the near future So needless to say this is an area of Boston which is currently undergoing a significant transition And my clients are artists They are award-winning artists with connections to Boston schools and Boston's artists community And originally they occupied what you can see in that photograph a center block garage Which is presently there As their artist studio and their dream was to make this somewhere the artists could live And could work and contribute to a robust artist community However, as we've all seen in the news lately there's been a decline in some of those artists opportunities And based upon that news in their own personal experiences They wanted to contribute in a way that could allow that community to flourish With a thriving pedestrian focused artist focused building And that's why we have this project before today After numerous conversations and meetings and groups with the Pacific associations This project was reduced from nine to six units Parking was added to the front of the building which will be Transient parking during the daytime overnight parking in the evening Several considerations were made for bicycle parking indoor bicycle parking indoor storage of trash and refuse There were also streak scape improvements that were added which Raffi will tell you all about But I think that I want to take the words out of the council's mother self But I do believe we have council bearing support for this project And in whole the the effort here was to match And contribute to the developments which are downhill and across the street without overburdening the community And we believe that we've done that with this project as it's been designed So that being said if raffi can take over and take you through some of the plans or answer any questions you might have I think that would be a program Thank you camera. I'm here But I'm not controlling the slide so if we can go through the slides right The existing survey Right next slide Are proposed where we are shortening our law in order to expand sidewalk area to match Washington five next And we'll see in more detail the various iterations that have happened since the previous mission Which is the addition of parking as camera described two means of egress Next Yes The ground level It's primarily devoted in a way to public benefits Commercial space at the front pass the two parking lots which get a 20 put setback By parking at the entrance entrance ramp to the entrance of the building which is Idiot combined and an art space in the back contemporary art space used either artist Also for various neighborhood meetings on the basement level we Based on comments we Inclose the trash and recycling in a closed room And also there's additional storage and a mechanical room on the basement The garden at the back is made accessible and open Previously there was a staircase there. We pushed that back. So we're in compliance with the 20 puts it back in the back next So the second floor of the building is all devoted to artist spaces commercial spaces and again it engages also as you will see in the files within the street It this is a really part of The design trying to make the most out of this very problematic and narrow site That so the first two floors are all devoted to the art component And and the kind of the artist units the third fourth floor or Combination of different size total of six units Where the fourth and fifth floor have duplex units Next Uh the other component is the facade where we created the setbacks that allow for planters Briefed setbacks. So the the planting is kind of happening within the facade and it's uh It's something you know that will be enjoyed both by tenets and by by the neighbors obviously But it's so an attempt to integrate a kind of a green facade into the actual structure of Other changes include the solo panels or the roof um Next And uh in towards the quarry road the kind of the uh more transparent condition of the two first levels that are artist space the spaces That will allow this kind of engagement. So as Cameron mentioned the whole areas undergoing the significant transition As a public as a business kind of district neighborhood business district Uh, and it doesn't need an art component and uh this is the art component within the larger kind of urban urban condition um Mr. Seigo, can you can you also talk about the violations and How your project relates to them? Right so in terms of height we're matching we're a bit under the Washington five which is our neighbor For in terms of the street facade and street Action it kind of works with that you see the kind of the situation as of now which is a kind of a Very small shack in existence, so we're matching the height more or less, but we're we're a bit under uh in terms of the parking uh the whole approach here is is uh To create a project around walkability in pedestrian access and bike access who are offering a 14 bike spots to park in uh and and to and Maintaining the two existing car parks but overall the The um you know connection to mass transit uh, it's a very walkable neighborhood. It's part of the business sub district Language you know to promote remote walkability in pedestrian access, so that explains the parking and also the site is enormously narrow and extremely difficult to create additional walking audit especially with a with a rock in the middle of it um The units uh, you know, we as Cameron mentioned we move to six units and and three HARDIS commercial spaces These are the main the main points uh That we're kind of addressing in terms of and obviously the FAR which reflects you know the height and the And the the need for those units to also support the artist space Are there questions from the board? Are you going to leave the existing curb cut To allow for the two parking spaces to exist It will it needs to be read down obviously uh to match The site You're not going to widen it you're Okay, so uh If if the If the chair can read the BPD a recommendation that would be great You Approval with provisos that plan be submitted to to bpda for designer view with attention to adding a set back to the fifth floor and ensuring the design is your Speckles and neighborhood context Okay, so um I just want to make a comment to um to the board um it's it's a very small site. It's very narrow um It's about Right here. I'm reading about 32 feet. Let's say wide um. I don't necessarily understand the The setback of the fifth floor um the building there the context there's really almost no context Or there's variations of different typologies In the context and um the building next to it is a fairly new Construction building which is a very enlarged Much longer kind of facade and I can understand why there's a setback Um in that larger mass building on the fifth floor because the facade is so wide um, but this is the only um the The recommendation of the bpda to set that back um. I don't necessarily agree with um But I just wanted to kind of have that as a open conversation to to the board members Can you go back to the unit to the renderer images we can see the building next door Yeah, so that's what I was just commenting that that building is very is very large and typically setbacks on the fifth floor You know, it's just to break down the scale. I don't necessarily understand why it's a comment towards your your project um And so i'm just making kind of that as observation or basically and then to be respectful of the context again The contents fairly new with the building to the right um, so I don't understand why we'll be falling at new building to the right If there's any contacts we're looking at really residential kind of typologies around around Around the neighborhood, but it is next to very large apartment or apartment blocks with flat routes um, you know all the way Almost at an extrusion block um, so i'm just making some observations for my colleagues Okay, I don't know further comment no further comment Thank you, sir Let me tell you something you have uh nine units now. Do you have six correct It's been as well now the reason why i do pedals the unit count from Meal nine to six Yes, so we we had a robust community discussion and it was a large part based upon the community desire to have Less units but also to have bigger units so we did not dramatically just decrease the size of the building, but we did Allow for a certain larger units to include some family style living within this building Which was a director quest from i believe The civic association and the butters as well as the council's office There's also a space which is going to be retained By this ownership group to be an artist and residents That will be able to present in some of the artist space within this building Okay, thank you Any other questions from the board Very men may have public testimony Yes, good morning madam chair mobs or fact and doza here also right in the Aeson from mayors offices neighborhood services For 171 Quarry Hill we had an a butters meeting on April 27th We had a butters presence event concerns based on density Parking the overall size of the building As well as a corner abutting lot We had some non abutting attendees who did attend an express support based on the creation of arts space They did present with the association the zoning chair of the B.A.I. if we be on to testify to their stance after me We have not received any letters of support or opposition for this project We would like to defer to the judgment of the board at this time. Thank you And In afternoon, this is more of a creative from counselor bayton's office the counselor late to go on record and support of this project She appreci she appreciates the The proposed use of the project the arts use which has been increasingly difficult to find and retain in this neighborhood She appreciates the current proposed design just to add a bit more context the building that's immediately adjacent 185 Quarry which I believe was mentioned briefly It burned down, but that was a building where there was artists use Youth studios dance to you. So this was a part use was is something that has been missed in this neighborhood In this particular neighborhood so we were really appreciative that this project is bringing that back to this corner of the neighborhood Thank you Madam chair members of the board and of all of gums from the right and also improving such a like to go on record and support. Thank you Thank you And Jim what Paul Solman's in council last my compriority no record support Matthew and in velocity hi Yes, I'm a new member of the arts community in Boston and I see space as a premium here even space availability for the creative sector and as they've already mentioned above That There are losing space and people are attracted to cities not by the office space available by by the arts and cultural scenes and opportunities This mixed use space is desperately needed in this area So I I testimony in support Thank you 50 green street Thank you Hello, madam chair members of the board. My name is Felicity salmon. I reside at 127 withington road in Newton But I work as a freelance musician and an arts administrator in Boston and I I can tell you firsthand that we are And there's a massive need for arts focus mixed use development such as this and I just wanted to go on record in support of this project Thank you First, Jenna you're looking to get testimony Are you all muted Okay, yeah, let's see connect to the issues. I have no additional ways hence Okay any other questions from the board With that may I have a motion? Madam chair, I'd like to put a motion forward. This is a very amiable project with much needed commercial spaces for for um, Brighton I would like to put a motion Of approval with a provisal that I'm sorry. Thank you. Please proceed Just with the only provisal that the curb cut Dimension remains this that is not it's not Remains the same that it's not enlarged Let's take a second Mrs. Tambring Yes, let's do well. Yes Mr. Valencia. Yes, this better process Yes This can auto yes, Mr. Collins. Yes, chair also works. Yes, good working carries good luck Thank you. Thank you Next we have case B.O.A. 119 9457 with the address of 29 southern and rural Is the applicant and or their representative to explain to the board Yes, good morning, madam chair members of the board Mark LeCast LeCast law 75 Arlington Street in Boston attorney for owner of the property. You heard on the line Also, you today is Gary Hendren who is the project architect um, this is a proposed Reunit addition to an existing structure at the corner of Anglewood and Sutherland Road in Brighton It is located in the Aberdeen historic district and much care has been given to making the addition Not only consistent with the existing structure, but compliant with the Aberdeen historic guidelines such that we have Engaged a an advisory review and made substantial changes to the project as it went through the review process In response to suggestions by Aberdeen historic staff Although we can't go back to them until we had exhausted this process, but Wanted the board to know that we've worked closely with them Because of the historic nature of this area You'll see on the right hand side of the screen the black doubt portion in the middle of the screen is the existing parcel right next door is a 22 unit building across the street Is a 26 unit building and then diagonally across the street that large Sort of you shaped building is a large senior center So it is definitely clustered around very large multi-family type residential units even though it is technically in the three F some district So again the proposal is to Construct a modest three-story addition on only one side of the building which you'll see in the elevations that Gary will explain to you That will change the occupancy from four units to seven units And provide three additional dwelling units for this property back in 2006 this board approved the One additional unit changing the occupancy from three to four So it presently has a legal occupancy of 40 units as approved by this board in 2006 and pursuing to a certificate of occupancy Those four units as you'll see on the floor plans include two duplex units that have Living space in the basement. There were some questions we received during the process about the basement units. They're not units. They're living area for the existing units in the building and all were part of the approved unit layout back in 2006. I just was reviewing the zoning board of PL decision from 2006 and it makes reference to the duplex style units with space in the garden level So those are existing no change to those and with respect to the three-story addition on the one side of the building Which will contain the three new units? There's no there's no basement space for that. It's slab on grade Importantly also although we're adding Square footage and footprint to this building. It's a 9300 square foot lot on a corner. So it has lots of breathing room on all sides um even with the addition it will have 66% of the lot area will be open. There's a large front lawn There's a side lawn. There's a side yard area and there's parking existing parking in the rear again. There's Six spaces have been previously approved by this board as part of the 2006 decision and the site plan shows seven spaces for the seven units Which is a one-to-one ratio Um, but again even with the addition and the existing parking 66% of the lot area is open space um I think I'll turn it over to Gary to run through the floor plans and show you the proposed elevation on additions um, but There it is on the left hand side of your screen the proposed three unit addition There's a line down the middle and that is the existing building and you can see the front area on Sutherland and along Englewood as remains open and the parking is at the back of the building To be accessed by the existing curb cut on Englewood Ave So with that I'll turn it over to Gary to talk about the floor plans and elevations Okay, thank you mark uh members of the board. My name is Gary Hendren. I'm with Hendren associates here in uh bright Nolston area Um on this particular Building we've got as you will see in the elevations we've Made a lot of effort to Match the existing architecture the line of the roof the style of the of the addition what we have done Is again away from the corner of the lot on the proposed three units that was a Three-season porch with a deck on top So we have not taken away from the four units that existed what we've added the three units. Can we go to the next slide please Okay, this is the existing site plan and and this is the at grade So the the first floor as you can see by the steps and along Sutherland Road you come up about a half a level So the the darkened Units on the right are existing apartments the one on the left is the new apartment uh each apartment does have two means of egress uh we've uh Made them adequately sized with watch closets Uh and like you say we have not exceeded the floor erasure of the site itself We do match that by zoning requirements next floor please Okay on the uh Okay, well again the basement that's an existing uh basement floor plan next slide And this is the one we just talked about the two units and the existing building remained we had One two bedroom unit at the first floor next slide As you go up um The on the second floor we've had it another three bedroom units um So we've taken over the second means of egress stair was uh been removed and pushed to the outside of the building uh for access to all the new units um and by doing that we're able to add a A bedroom inside of the existing building uh which makes the second floor a three bedroom unit so we have a family unit um the third floor um through the review process um We originally Had a larger unit um but in order to to maintain the existing roof line that has been reduced to a one bedroom unit So that part of it's in the overhang Now we can go to the elevations Unless the existing elevation you can see uh to the right of the building is that uh that porch and with the decks That have been replaced by the units next slide And that's just from the from the rear side same sort of condition next slide please I'm afraid you've got the old These are not the current slides because on the front that roof line um As you can see originally we had a three three decks but on the right side that top floor has been made to match the Refline so the buildings do match uh with a continuation of the architecture Um is there a more current set You know that was the set that we submitted Gary But for the set the read read the middle uh but for the group flying everything else remains the same and that was the design change right That's correct And then we were requested just to uh there was a comment maybe to enclose that rear stair Uh, which is uh we're willing to do that's not a problem it was originally Uh, right uh Coverage staircase that would become an enclosed staircase Yeah, and Madam Chair he's referring to our voter support that we received from the BAA Included their request um that we request a proviso from this board in the event of approval That the rear access stairway shown here on the elevation being pledged and and we would agree to do that Uh the other thing we like to mention we do have 16 letters of support from no butters uh that they have no opposition to this project Any questions from the board? Yes um How many parking spaces uh do you currently have Seven Seven so um There's no Change in terms of addition That you're requesting Right, I believe that the maneuverability citation Is because you can see the configured routine shows a tandem arrangement But the current occupants of this structure largely part serve along the property line there So they're they rarely implement the tandem Arrangement but the proposed as shown on the side plan is the six you know three tandem Spaces and then not one additional so sense of no change no addition to the parking no additional paving to create parking surface just status quo Right, but you were slated for all she oh parking this right from a nobility. Okay um, and then is there a reason why you haven't considered an accessible unit on the ground floor There is no ground floor the first floor the building the first floor is half a level up right um But is the prior proposed addition you you could We could put a ramp in the front yard maybe uh to make it and accessible unit and that's I can see where that would be feasible um You know, I can speak to the owner about doing that so from my standpoint from an architectural standpoint It's certainly feasible to do that given the size of the front porch Other questions from the board Um, given the amount of the paving on this site. Are you able to doing a more permeable surface there for all that paving? And is there any landscaping anticipated? There's uh There's existing landscaping to remain we haven't changed the paving at all in terms of the quantity of the asphalt uh, again, we could take a proviso to Make the less state of parking spaces we would have to obviously excavate the asphalt and put down permeable pavement To reduce the the water runoff so It's certainly feasible to do that uh Little electric construction cost but the rest of the there's Unfortunately the the photos were in part of the submission. There's quite a bit of landscaping on the existing lot as well as the large tree in the front yard Uh, and all that remains when we're not impacting any of the less state trees and the footprint is Less about 10 feet larger than the existing porches that are on that side of the house. So We've taken out a little bit of grass but not much alteration to the landscape and It's been out of the lot coverage is going from 28% of lot coverage to 34% Um, that's with respect to the building so minor addition um, but if you walk by on southern land now As you turn that corner on to angle with the house the existing structure is set back nicely and there's a beautiful front line with very mature bushes It's an old old structure Yeah, yeah, I see that. Thank you Yes, I'll follow up from from that question I see that there is uh there is parking on the street and also the green line is uh You think walking these times So have you considered reducing the number of parking spaces to allow for more uh open space for the new residents? Um, Mr. Valencia the you know, so the Prior decision of this board in 2006 approved six parking spaces for the then four units And then as part of you know the community review process of course parking in Austin, Brighton is always uh premium So the request was for one to one ratio so effectively that's just adding one more space without needing to increase the existing paid area of the parcel. It's always As as we know and you know, it's a given take but we're effectively only adding the one space for the three additional units Thank you Uh, with that uh may I have a good testimony? Yes, good afternoon, Madam Chair, Madam support. Frank Mendoza here. All-spirinley. A song for the mayor's office of neighborhood services For 29 southernland road we hosted in the butter's meeting on January the 19th It was not very well attended. We had one attendee who was not a direct butter Didn't express any concerns but did have some questions that the applicant was able to answer We did get the 16 letters of support that the applicant spoke about and we haven't gotten any letters opposition regarding the project although we did get one letter from Resident of Cleveland Circle concerned about the store nature of the building and the relevancy of the Aberdeen Conservation design district Beyond that the Brighton also improvement association zoning chairs should be on success wise so there stands after myself And we would like to defer to the judgment of the board and this matter at this time. Thank you. Thank you Good afternoon This is Marma Gray from councilor Graydon's office councilor Blake to go on record of support uh Go on record in support of this project you'd like to request to the that the board consider for viso that would require some sort of um Premier World Paving for the driveway. Thank you. Thank you Madam chair members of the board and about the goams for the Brighton House improvement association We'd like to go on record in support with the provider that with second means of egress is enclosed and not open as they have agreed Thank you Madam chairman's and board also all this because let's make a clarity between the reduction and support Okay, I have no additional raise hands. Thank you Okay, uh, was that ma'am emotion You Madam chair um, I'll give this a try I would like to put forward a motion of approval with uh, provisels One that it that the project undergoes ppda design review for site planning to review the Minerability of the parking layout To that the applicant provides parable pavement Three that the second means of egress isn't close and fourth that there'll be accessibility code review Is there a second seconds Mr. Stembridge You're on mute again sir I apologize Madam chair I'm writing all the provisos. Sorry No worries Mr. Stembridge Yes Miss we will Yes Mr. Valencia Yes Miss Betapuraza Yes Miss Penato Yes Mr. Collins Yes Chair also votes yes the motion carries good luck Thank you, Pa Next we have a super companion case First is case B08 130 9386 With the address of 75 Maywood Street Along with that we have case B08 1538154 The address of 74 to 76 seven street Is the applicant and or their representative president troops points of the board I Friday you on I see we're going to make your panelists You can just press accept one step pulls out Okay, and it's going to temporarily mute you so if you can just unmute yourself again when we become panelists thank you You Hi Fred can you hear us I was really pleased that I think I'm reading myself you should be able to hear me now Yes, okay, thank you very much Thank you Madam chair I think you members of the board my name is Fred Manning. I'm an architect I've been working with my client picking Western for a while on this project. We were a full of the board I think Last time and and the projects been different a couple of times because we needed to To settle this issue with the with the With a company lock where we are we are There's some dividing the lot a little bit just to provide additional parking for the new proposed building And I guess we'll talk about that that that application act to this one So this proposal right now that you are seeing is for a six-year-old building Uh on on the main street. This is a lot that is owned by by a neighbor who lives on the same street Uh While I'm proposing it's six units where we'll have a small studio unit in the ground floor and a Too bad you're reading on the first floor then we'll have If you go into the next slide, we'll see that on the on the second and third floor will have two That uh a two two bedrooms on on each one of those floors with two baths um We've been cited by by the board for uh For high-preservation flow area ratio and it's sufficient for yard and it's a ship side yard Uh, we have we've had meetings with the community there at that will the timer where show my roof decks The community did not appreciate that so we removed that we were We're providing fewer parking spaces. We also achieved To to to the county the community concerned and we so we have we're providing uh, I want to unpacking the The roof height is maybe slightly out of foot up to higher than the then then the what is uh The adjacent building where we are providing Uh an architecture that we think compliments also already there we're providing Any copy accessibility on the first floor We we using material that is compatible with the neighborhood buildings Uh, I think it's uh, it's a project that has been on the board for quite a bit. We've had meetings with the community We are meeting with uh with the uh Nabilist associations. I think it's all been well received uh the The the mayor's office and uh city council's office. I've also been brief on this project. So So this is this is basically what it is. It's a it's a it's a six year building uh On an empty lot that has been vacuant for quite a bit and um we meeting idle and and then I'll just fill in a missed two I fill on the street and uh and and and brings much needed housing for the community I have a question for the board So Okay, um, did you consider something smaller that doesn't take up sort of it looks like almost the entirety of the lot Uh, which is now vacant lot with with the fair amount of mischievous um, so I'm just curious why it's such a Development that it encompasses the entire lot So sorry So do we I don't know if this explains it well uh yeah on the ground floor Footprints small on the ground floor then when we get to the second floor that's when it's elevated So you you'll have quite a better space underneath the building if you can see this this this is the extent of the of the footprint on the actual I'm not actually on the ground then when then when you get to second floor that's where it's kind of it can't deliver it over So to a lot of the parking and and and and so it will not feel as It's congested as you may You may envision because uh The actual footprint on the ground itself is smaller But it looks like the remaining area of the light is all paved Like there's no yeah, so So we we had this competing interest between while we were showing earlier the hell a bit more We're facing well we're showing right now that has more parking. I mean we will be willing to to reduce the number of parking If there was a provider Recommended to us another first to provide more space. I mean the attempt was trying to To provide one to one parking, but this is a this is an area that is in a very well served public Just petition Uh bus line so we could I can envision as the owner Uh It would be I think we'll be willing to reduce the number of parking and provide more space on the site You know, I mean I can imagine a providing for parking Feston for services and and and and you and you using the remaining of the site to both of more waste Faceman and sharp and treat the like so this certainly will be Acceptable to the staff. Thank you. Thank you. Other questions from the board Can you please let us know what is the proposed curb cut Dimension and then the other is Uh decide yard What's your side yard dimension Yeah The curb cut the curb is going to be the typical A curb required by dpda Uh, we don't have a I think we're showing it right now to be A little bit over 11 feet that we are We we we we haven't gone to the water dpda process yet, but it will be it will be Uh, it will be adequate. I believe for For the cost of going in In come out it will be a new curb cut that will meet that will meet um zoning and i'm trying to look up the the side yard right now Because you're dimension you're not the cyclan is not dimensioned at all. Okay I can Secret out there. Make me sure Looks like you have a ramp very close to the property if i'm reading that correctly on the site plan Yeah, I have a I have a way of a little If you're facing the building on the right side of it you'll you'll see a ramp That was that wasn't with that wasn't with quest after meeting with uh with the community and also with with uh with uh with the city We plan with your or that that that will provide Henrik up parking And I'm gonna talk in any accessible unit so that's that's why we we decided to add that that that ramp on the side But if you look at the site plan and let's say you have an accessible um parking space you can't even Get accessible ramp I don't think my size means shone is that the way to show my i'm looking at the target just get sighted You cannot share so you can just tell no no i'm saying that what i'm seeing here is not mine Yeah Yep, that's the correct that's the Yeah, so you can you can see here if you can see here the damp ramp it's not even Um position where you can get from an accessible parking space Oh, it's back to it No, I think I think you you you wouldn't be able to i think i what i what i have a fight but i will have i I've designed it to have a fucking waiting it's a foot of the ramp from the parking from the parking space I think you maybe I think you may be Which i think we can we can modify to make sure that that's that's a matter of making sure you meet school I think we can make that work You don't have adequate drawings to convince me that it can work but that's okay Yeah, I will make it work, but i see you're amenable. Okay. Thank you. I'm in a move. Yeah, absolutely Thank you Any other questions from the board? I have a question, I'm chavs for the applicant. So this was deferred from the board meeting in september Can you sort of give a higher level overview of what has changed since that meeting within the plans? Yeah, so the reason he was deferred um, he wasn't Making people's at the point mainly the reason he was deferred is because we needed to Have in a company application for for saddened street where we are doing the subdivision Because by establishing the land where we are taking part of the saddened street mod Another to provide the practice space for me would That also triggered Is zoning validation for the existing lot so they wanted it us to also Adjust that at the same time so he was deferred for that reason So just to confirm there are no actual changes to your plan. That's that was for me question No, they are not so changes I've got at that time. Did you reprieve to the bpda recommendation? In the feedback from the bpda I don't think this has gone to the bpda yet Well, we have a recommendation um for for the board and it sort of Which is public? Yeah, and it recommends a denial based on a number of Items so I just wasn't sure if you had seen that and had taken that feedback Into account before coming back um, I'm happy to read it if anyone Yeah, I can just read it Um, so they recommended denial that prejudice the proponent should explore a proposal that narrows The structure is massing to meet the areas side yard requirement Updates should also relocate the proposed driveway off of the sidewalk line and significantly reduce the amount of paving on the site To retain the site its landscape and existing trees and provide adequate screening and buffering Along the site site and rear lot lines Thank you with that. Let's take public testimony Yes Yes, Madam chair members of the board cornering with the mayor's office of neighborhood services this time the mayor's office deferred to the judgment of this board some back information the community process Um, but a butter's being was held. I don't have a lot of information on that to the personnel changes to understand that we're concerns expressed with The upkeep of the adjacent property They outkinned went on to meet several times with the civic association that area um project right in the nine street united neighborhood Association I decided on supporting this project on the condition that they not do not include a roof deck This part of the proposal without a deferred to the board this time. Thank you Thank you That's okay. You better be okay my co-zoo Michael co-zoo 320 letter a blue lamb new project right We have been working with the home of the property owner Who and she lives in the neighborhood the property that we were concerned about was a problem property from someone else This neighbor this applicant has been very helpful in addressing the problem property Working with us to work with the city addressing the other property problem property. That's not that was not his People felt that this property would be value We will continue to work With the property owner in terms of making any adjustments that's needed we appreciate and addressing the lack of the removal of the roof deck Also, we were concerned about neighbors were concerned about the lack of off-street parking So they accommodate that we are willing to work in terms of further We Designed review But we are conditioning supporting this project Okay, and I have no additional resistance at the moment Very clear and another follow-up questions from the board Without may I have a motion Madam chair, I like to um, I think the density is good at the site I like to support this project and put forth a motion of approval Would be pdh design review as it relates to the massing of the building the location of the building the site plan landscaping to maintain existing trees and to promote a Permiable surface and lastly to review the total amount of parking To allow for open space Is there a second a second that Mr. Stembridge Yes Miss we were out and yes Mr. Valencia Yes Is better braza yes Mr. Panado yes Mr. Collins yes Sure also votes yes motion carries good luck. Thank you Next we have case beaway 145 906 one With the address of 74 of our street Is the applicant and where they're Represented to explain to the board Yes, good afternoon Madam chair members of the board Richard Lynn 245 Summary Street East Boston behalf of the petitioner with me is Honour on and our husband Jason crew Also, we have our exact persons with project architect Madam chair, we can jump down to slide five this party could place to start Our proposal involves a demolition of existing Two-family structure when we are proposing to replace that now with a five-inch structure with five garage parking spaces We were before the board and we did request the deferral previously Based upon the BPD is recommendation and opportunity took an opportunity to try to address a number of those Comments as stated this is now a five-minute proposal. I know the public notice at six We did reduce that to five with five parking spaces We can jump down perhaps to slide eight. It'll give us a little bit different perspective as well So good place to stop so our building is here on the right hand side next to the blue Looks like on a three-and-a-half-story building That would be the wall so it does sit on a five thousand square foot site Which is currently situated in the two-f two thousand zoning district Under current zoning, Madam chair, this lock could conceivably subdivide and Two two-year-old dwellings could be struck as a matter of right However, I think it's important for context including the past recommend days to the BPD and consider New zoning that is likely to be implemented for this area This site if we want to talk to the next slide I'm sure perfect. So this site is being uh targeted for me called EBR-2 Which would allow for a number of different zoning regulations that hardly exist here in the two F two thousand Right now under article 53 the FAR for this site Would be in excess of the allowable limit just a one point of We're proposing 1.43 car bearings for that in addition the design of Buildings in the two F two thousand district would be two and a half stories There are a number of examples of three and taller buildings in this section means Boston I think it's significant EBR-2 will allow for a three-story building to introduce zoning More importantly EBR-2 will not have an FAR Repartament rather it looks to issues like Carbable services and more proven space And that's precisely what we did better. We addressed the comments and concerns the BPDA Since the last deferral if we want to jump down to the site plan At slide 11 that probably be helpful to talk about that So we're going to that we can see the layout of the building here we do set the building back about who over 21 feet in the rear yard And that is an increase in the original proposal By doing that and looking at our overall site plan Our permeable space on the site is at about 37% I believe under new zoning the goal is to be at least 30% So we are in excess of what the minimum of our permeable surface More importantly, we ensure that we cap the parking in the garage so that we have additional pavement or rear There was an opportunity to try to create some parking in the back of the building And that was something that we certainly want to avoid in order to ensure as much permeable space as possible I'm going to jump down to the next slide please Show the first level without parking garage and again one of the things that we did here and the original recommendation was the six parking spaces are a little bit snout And didn't have some effect on maneuverability. I know that was originally cited By offering and changing the surround to five parking spaces We do checkerboard the garage which is a method that we have used previously And the maneuverability based on both compact size and regular size vehicles Should be less of an issue More importantly, there is an existing curb cut on the site that is in excess 10 feet We would be reducing that down to the residential width of 10 feet as well Real quickly I can jump through the floor class would have jumped to slide 13 and I'll just talk quickly about those So level one we do have the garage parking as well as an accessible unit is too bad too bad that grade We show four other units on the upper levels. Those are all family size three bad two bad units Ranging anywhere from about 1100 square feet up to around 14 high square feet The reason we incorporated the number of three better units is this particular neighborhood Has been pretty sensitive to asking for family size units We wanted to ensure that we were addressing those promises in terms so with the reduction down to five units We did I have the ability with some of the first place space to create some of that Additional space last I would point out for the slapper roof. We don't propose a roof there That was something that was contemplated early on the process, but we eliminate that as well I will pause there. I know that there may be some questions regarding the design way of some of the changes But we'll pause and ask any questions in the board Thank you miss villains any questions from the ward This is a rental project or This is an entire hallmark ship so these would be individually sold as partners Okay All right any other questions from the board Hearing none I'll take public testimony My love you go miss from the mayor's office of neighborhood service um Good afternoon Madam chair members of the board OMS holds it in a butter's meeting for this project on February 7th February 16th, 2023 On this call a resident at 79 Horus express concerns about the timeline of the project and about parking Two residents on the call express full support for the project while another resident suggested that the project be four units six parking spaces and express concern that was coming from neighbors on On Bennington Street about the height But overall this resident like the design Another butter suggested that the height was fine and design was okay Furthermore the applicant met with her review neighborhood association in May The group voted to impose the project with a load of 21 to 7 OMS also received a packet of support with 28 letters of support from a butter as a neighbors that was ordered to the board At this time our office would like to defer to the board Thank you Good afternoon Madam chair members of the board is the bachelor of power from College for the lettuce office And so there is lack of support from how we read and hope neighborhood association with their bold and oppositional to this project Additionally, we have received numerals Emails from people in the community and the voters in a post to this part in opposition to this project And lastly the project does not seem to be In conjunction with the plan is possible so sourdering forward And so for all of these reasons the council would like to go in opposition based public. Thank you Thank you Okay Any of the elected officials Robert and then Brian Station Amen address and briefly tell us if you and support opposition Yes, hi, my name is Robert Adams. I am Direct a butter. I am at 70 Harra Street. I am opposed to this project Primarily because as a member of the Harborview group we did vote no for this project We have concerns about the overall hike and many of us in this community have been working very hard with the bpta About Plann East Boston and so the maps that are currently being drawn are saying that a project like this would be too high And so we do feel that be the case and many of us are concerned that You know if we continue forward with this we're still committing the sins of the past and we would like with the plan east And to try to prevent those from happening and this is just something that we are just opposed to primarily on the high pace. Thank you Okay Looks like Brian I have proper and children. I am on the property directly behind this 595 Bennington and Where where landlords and we take great pains to Not overpopulate our units. We take less rent because we try to be good neighbors And so this kind of flies in the face of what our efforts are in sense of Incense in the city in the area This far is requiring variances by has some experience with this. I don't understand why the property Would be considered for variances based on my understanding of what the requirements offer that I echo mr. Adams Previous comments that it's a I think a terrible precedent for forestry moving from two family development to Five because you're just gonna find developers, you know buying multiple properties and combining them into increased density Thank you Okay Michelle Hi, I'm Michelle I live at 78 Horace Street I'm a director of butter for this project and I'm in complete support of it for our multiple reasons One being that I'm a lifelong expassion resident and I love the you know the change It is Boston is going through and I think that this is well planned out I think that the parking isn't gonna be an issue. I love that you know We have them in the building um, I think that building up this of our moment is An eye saw and I think that just by putting you know developing this project The value of the street in general is going to absolutely go up Um, I'm not concerned about the height. I don't think it's going to you know ruin anyone's view. There's our houses are very spaced out as it is and Going forward. I'd love to see this this happen to East Austin and particularly Horace It's a beautiful street to begin with and I'd love for something like that to go up. I think it's it's great absolutely Thanks Anani Uh, yes, thank you Madam Chair members of the board Anani DeRusio at six CAA-A-60 AB Harre Street Also direct butters to the project Um, very much in support of this project Um, as you know our neighborhood our community is in desperate need of new homes This is appropriate for a five thousand square foot law. We supported six new homes for families I think the scenes of developers Varied down to five but still very much in support of that We have tenets in our first floor looking to purchase a home Impossible in our community We have other friends and family looking to rent also impossible in our community Because of lack of supply We could have five new homes for families You know online this time next year Also very much consistent with at least the commas and feedback we've had Um For for clandest Austin for this specific area of East Boston. So thank you very much Thank you Hey Nicholas Hi, good afternoon everyone Nicholas or C. Jean 121 Harvest Street East Boston I'm in support of the project in a time where there's a desperate need for additional housing stock in the city I think this is a well designed and thoughtful Approached adding additional units of housing and I think it would be a great addition to the East Boston community Thank you. I mean Colby last raised hand I am Colby Madrilla 15 Horace Street and I support the project because it's not very dense by the amount of the size of the lot and Um, it takes you are the parking and the actual height is not Out of line for the height of the outer buildings Thank you Uh, Chair, my average spawn very briefly. Yes, sir And it goes to the heart of I believe the vote of the association issue on height I don't want it to be confused or the current height allowable in the district is 358 a height issue I'm of the current zoning is that two and a half stories is permitted This would be considered three story with 35 feet is still the maximum height of it Um with respect to Clint East Boston EVR2 Actually would allow three stories by right and would eliminate the requirement from FAR Variant so we are and we attempted to align this project more with the Sposton and the current article 53 which is in effect I would assume until until the zoning commission decides Unnew article, but we are heading in that direction. That's why we designed the building the way we did thank you Thank you Any other questions from the board Hearing none may have a motion I'll make a motion to approve this with dpda design review and special attention to the parking and maneuverability Is that a second that second Mr. Stembridge Yes This we will yes mr. Valencia Yes This better browser yes Miss. Pinato yes Mr. Collins yes There are also votes yes the motion carries Thank you very much and it looks like we are on break again until we want to cock see you all then You